PART OF THE PROBLEM
NOW, MA'AM, PLEASE NOT ONE
THING.
YES, MA'AM, PLEASE.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MA'AM.
>> THANK YOU.
WELCOME TO THE MARCH FOUR
MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR CITY
COUNCIL.
IF YOU'RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
, I PLEDGE
ALLEGIANCE TO THE FLAG OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND TO
THE REPUBLIC FOR WHICH IT
STANDS ONE NATION UNDER
INDIVISIBLE WITH LIBERTY AND
JUSTICE FOR ALL.
LET OUR CLERK PLEASE CALL THE
ROLE OF COUNSEL COUNCIL MEMBER
DESH HERE, HERE, HERE OUR SONG
HERE COUNSELOR WATSON HERE
BECAUSE WE'RE A DENHA HERE AT
GROUND ZERO HERE.
MAYOR TAYLOR HERE COMES FROM
OUR IRE HERE AT HOME HERE
COUNCILMAN FRIENDS HERE,
COUNCILMAN CORNELL HERE WE HAVE
A QUORUM IF A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA BY COUNCIL
MEMBER PIRACICABA
COUNTERREACTION DISCUSSION
OF THE AGENDA OR FAVOR POSED
THE AGENDA IS APPROVED.
>> WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR
MAYOR EXCELLENT.
>> WE DO HAVE CHAIR CARTER AN
UPDATE FROM THE INDEPENDENT
COMMUNITY POLICE OVERSIGHT
COMMISSION.
OUR MONTHLY UPDATE CHAIR
CARTER, YOU HAVE THE COME.
>> THANK YOU, YOUR HONOR.
GOOD EVENING.
MEMBERS OF COUNCIL CITY
ADMINISTRATOR MISS CLARKE.
THANK YOU FOR THIS OPPORTUNITY
TO SPEAK WITH YOU ON THIS FIRST
MONDAY OF WOMEN'S HISTORY MONTH
.
AS YOU KNOW, WE HAD THE TRAFFIC
STUDY LAST YEAR DR. KARPIAK AND
THE RESEARCHERS FROM EASTERN
MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY AND WE ARE
AWARE OF THOSE FINDINGS.
>> AND THEN YOU PASSED THE
DRIVING QUALITY ORDINANCE AND
IT IS VERY INTERESTING DID IN
TRYING TO DETERMINE IF THE
ORDINANCE MAKES A DIFFERENCE
AND IT MAKES A DIFFERENCE IF IT
MAKES A DIFFERENCE FOR THE
PEOPLE WHO LIVE AND WORK IN THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR AND THOSE
THOUSANDS THAT COME IN AND OUT
OF OUR CITY FOR ATHLETIC EVENTS
FOR THE ART FAIR AND OTHER
EVENTS THAT WE HOLD HERE.
SO IT MAKES A DIFFERENCE IF IF
WHAT WE TRY TO DO IS WORKING
BACK IN 2020 TO EXPAND AS WELL
AS THE HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
AND THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION, ALL CENTERS
SOLUTIONS TO THIS COUNCIL.
>> THEY WERE RESOLUTE.
THEY WERE RESOLUTIONS
REQUESTING THAT CERTAIN DATA BE
COLLECTED AND PERIODICALLY
PROVIDED TO AIPA.
>> WE THOUGHT WE WERE ASKING
COUNCIL TO DO THAT BUT IT TURNS
OUT WELL WE JUST FOUND OUT THIS
WAS AN INFORMATION JOURNAL
PIECE.
>> WE NEED THE DATA AND WHAT'S
ON THE POLICE DASHBOARD IS JUST
NOT ENOUGH.
>> WE I'M NOT A RESEARCHER BUT
WHAT WE'RE TOLD BY RESEARCHERS
IS THAT THE INFORMATION IS NOT
DOWNLOADABLE.
THEY CAN'T USE IT TO DO THEIR
RESEARCH AND IT'S NOT ENOUGH.
>> AND SO I WANTED TO LET YOU
KNOW THAT SHORTLY WE'LL BE
PRESENTING A RESOLUTION
REQUESTING ACTION BY COUNCIL
THAT WILL BE A JOINT RESOLUTION
WITH IG PARK AND THE HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION AND THE
INFORMATION IS NOT NECESSARILY
EASILY COLLECTED AND WE KNOW
THAT BUT IT'S WORTH IT WE
BELIEVE TO HAVE THE DATA SO WE
CAN KNOW EXACTLY WHAT'S GOING
ON IN THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
>> SO WE APPRECIATE YOUR
ATTENTION AND GWEN, THAT IN
YOUR ACTION HOPEFULLY WHEN THAT
RESOLUTION COMES TO YOU
SECONDLY YOU HAVE IN FRONT
OF YOU A COPY OF APACS 2023
ANNUAL REPORT AND I HOPE THAT
YOU WILL ADD YOUR LEISURE TAKE
A LOOK AT IT.
BUT RIGHT NOW I
WOULD ASK YOU
PLEASE TO TURN TO PAGE SIX ON
PAGE SIX YOU SEE A CHART
THERE'S A CHART ON A GRAPH AND
WHAT YOU CAN SEE IS WE'VE
SEPARATED OUT BY TYPES THE
TYPES OF COMPLAINTS THAT XPAC
HAS RECEIVED OVER THE LAST FOUR
YEARS.
>> AND BY THE WAY, THE THE
REPORT WILL BE ON THE WEBSITE.
IT'S GOING TO BE WIDELY
AVAILABLE AND IF ANYONE
BELIEVES THAT WE SHOULD BE
TYPING A DIFFERENT WAY, WE'RE
VERY HAPPY TO TO LISTEN.
THIS IS OUR FIRST TIME TRYING
TO TO GET THIS INFORMATION OUT
IN THIS MANNER.
>> BUT WHAT I'D LIKE YOU TO SEE
IS THAT FULLY FORTY ONE PERCENT
OF THE COMPLAINTS THAT CAME IN
TO IG PAC ARE ONE TYPE AND IF
YOU LOOK BACK ON PAGE FIVE
YOU'LL SEE THE TYPES ARE
DESCRIBED THE TYPES
OF COMPLAINTS THAT WE GET AND
I'M GOING TO READ COMPLAINT
TYPE ONE ALLEGATIONS THAT
INAPPROPRIATE LANGUAGE OR
ACTIONS WERE USED BY OFFICERS
AND THESE ARE WORDS THAT FROM
THE COMPLAINT RUDE,
UNPROFESSIONAL, AGGRESSIVE
BERATING, PROFANE,
INAPPROPRIATE UNTRUTHFUL
BEHAVIOR THAT'S FULLY 41
PERCENT OF THE COMPLAINTS THAT
WE RECEIVE.
>> WE WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT?
WHY DO WE THINK THIS IS SO
IMPORTANT?
>> THE OTHER DAY I I READ TOO
MUCH STUFF LIKE THIS BUT
THERE'S A THERE'S A STUDY THAT
WAS PUT OUT ONE OF THE AUTHORS
OF THE STUDY IS A RESEARCHER
PROFESSOR AT UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN AND IT'S CALLED
LANGUAGE FROM BODY WORN CAMERA
FOOTAGE SHOWS RACIAL
DISPARITIES IN OFFICER RESPECT
.
>> ROUTINE TRAFFIC STOPS ARE
NOT ONLY COMMON THEY ARE
CONSEQUENTIAL EACH AN
OPPORTUNITY TO BUILD OR ERODE
PUBLIC TRUST IN POLICE BEING
TREATED WITH RESPECT, BUILD
TRUST IN THE FAIRNESS OF AN
OFFICER'S BEHAVIOR WHEREAS RULE
DISRESPECTFUL TREATMENT CAN
ERODE TRUST.
THOSE ARE THINGS WE REALLY
ALREADY KNOW.
IT DIDN'T TAKE THE STUDY TO
TELL US THAT THE STUDY ALSO
FOUND IT SAYS WE FIND STRONG
EVIDENCE THAT UTTARA UTTERANCE
IS SPOKEN TO WHITE COMMUNITY
MEMBERS AND THIS IS THIS IS AN
ANN ARBOR.
>> WE FIND STRONG EVIDENCE THAT
UTTERANCES SPOKEN TO WHITE
COMMUNITY MEMBERS ARE
CONSISTENTLY MORE RESPECTFUL
EVEN AFTER CONTROLLING FOR
CONTEXTUAL FACTORS SUCH AS
SEVERITY OF THE OFFENSE OR
OUTCOME OF THE STAFF GOES ON TO
SAY REGARDLESS OF CAUSE WE
FOUND THAT POLICE OFFICERS
INTERACTION WITH BLACKS TEND TO
BE MORE FRAUGHT NOT ONLY IN
TERMS OF DISPROPORTIONATE
OUTCOMES BUT ALSO
INTERPERSONALLY EVEN WHEN NO
ARREST IS MADE AND NO USE
OF FORCE OCCURS, THESE
DISPARITIES COULD HAVE ADVERSE
DOWNSTREAM EFFECTS AS
EXPERIENCES OF RESPEC AND
DISRESPECT IN PERSONAL
INTERACTIONS OF POLICE OFFICERS
PLAY A CENTRAL ROLE IN
COMMUNITY MEMBERS JUDGMENTS
OF HOW PROCEDURALLY FAIR THE
POLICE ARE AS AN INSTITUTION WE
WANT TO BRING ABOUT FAIRNESS
AND THE PERCEPTION OF FAIRNESS
AND THAT EVERYONE BE TREATED
RESPECTFULLY.
>> WE HAVE SEVERAL
RECOMMENDATIONS THAT WE ARE AND
WE'RE LOOKING FORWARD TO
WORKING WITH CHIEF ANDERSON AND
WITH COUNSEL WITH REGARD TO
THESE RECOMMENDATIONS WE ASK
YOU TO PLEASE TAKE A LOOK AT
THE RECOMMENDATION NUMBER EIGHT
ON PAGE EIGHT DEALS WITH THIS
SPECIFIC TOPIC AND IT SAYS IT
IS RECOMMENDED THAT ALL
OFFICERS UNDERGO ONGOING
DOCUMENTED TRAINING IN THE
AREAS OF DE-ESCALATION DEALING
WITH PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES,
COMMUNICATION WITH THE PUBLIC
AND CULTURAL SENSITIVITY TO
RELATE TO OUR DIVERSE
POPULATION.
SO WE'RE GOING TO BE ASKING FOR
TRAINING.
>> WE KNOW IT'S GOING TO COST
AND THAT'S WHY WE BRING TO YOU
IN THIS FORM.
WE KNOW IT'S GOING TO COST BUT
WE BELIEVE THAT WE NEED IT.
MEMBERS OF COUNCIL WE
UNFORTUNATELY IN MY OPINION WE
LIVE IN AN ERA WHERE IMPORTANT
FOLKS HAVE PUT FORTH THE NOTION
THAT MUG SHOTS AND GOLD'S GYM
SHOES GOLD SNEAKERS ARE OF HIGH
VALUE TO CERTAIN PORTIONS
OF OUR COMMUNITY.
>> NOW WHEN YOU START OFF WITH
THAT PERCEPTION OF FOLKS, WHAT
ARE THE PERCEPTIONS ARE OUT
THERE?
WE NEED TO TRAIN FOLKS.
WE NEED TO HAVE CROSS-CULTURAL
TRAINING AND AGAIN IT'S GOING
TO COST AND THAT'S WHY WE'VE
PUT IT IN ONE OF OUR
RECOMMENDATIONS HERE IN ANN
ARBOR.
>> WE DON'T WANT ANY
PRECONCEIVED OR ILL CONCEIVED
PERCEPTIONS OR PREJUDICES TO
INTERFERE WITH THE RESPECTFUL
AND KIND TREATMENT OF ALL
PERSONS AND WE ARE ASKING FOR
KINDNESS.
WE DON'T BELIEVE IT'S THE SAME
AS WEAKNESS OR SOFTNESS.
THERE'S A SAYING GOING AROUND
THESE DAYS I KNOW EVERYONE HAS
HEARD IT.
THEY SAID IN A WORLD WHERE YOU
CAN BE ANYTHING, BE KIND AND SO
THAT IS OUR REPORT.
I DO HOPE THAT YOU TAKE A LOOK
AT THE FULL REPORT FROM TWENTY
TWENTY THREE.
LET US KNOW IF YOU THINK NEXT
YEAR WE GOT TO DO ANY CHANGES
THAT THERE ANYTHING THAT YOU
BELIEVE ARE INCORRECT.
LET US KNOW THAT WE WILL TRY TO
CORRECT ANY THING THAT'S
INCORRECT IF THERE ARE NO OTHER
QUESTIONS THERE ARE NO
QUESTIONS.
>> THAT IS MY REPORT FOR THIS
EVENING.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
JOE CARTER.
>> WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC COMMON
RESERVE TIME PUBLIC AND RESERVE
TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK
TO COUNCIL TO THE COMMUNITY
ABOUT MATTERS OF MUNICIPAL
INTEREST TO SPEAK AT PUBLIC
COMMENT RESERVE TIME ONE NEEDS
TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE BY
CONTACTING OUR CITY CLERK
SPEAKERS BOTH HERE AND ONLINE
WILL HAVE THREE MINUTES IN
WHICH TO SPEAK SO PLEASE PAY
CLOSE ATTENTION TO THE TIME OUR
CLERK OR THE TIME CLOCK WILL
NOTIFY YOU WHEN THIRTY SECONDS
ARE REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR
TIME HAS EXPIRED.
WHEN YOUR TIME IS EXPIRED
PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS
AND CEDE THE FLOOR.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS
PETER HOAK
.
>> HI MAYOR AND COUNCIL
MEMBERS.
THANKS FOR THE OPPORTUNITY TO
SPEAK TONIGHT FOSSIL FUELS
DIRTY SMALL ENGINES, PESTICIDE
HERBICIDE, EXCESSIVE IRRIGATION
MOWING IF YOU VOTE YES TONIGHT
ON DC TWO FOR THE GOLF CARTS
THIS IS WHAT YOU ARE VOTING TO
PERPETUATE.
>> A YES VOTE ALSO CONTINUES TO
SEND THE MESSAGE THAT ACCESS TO
TWO OF AN ARBOR'S PREMIER GREEN
SPACES SHOULD BE LIMITED ONLY
TO GOLFERS.
>> IS THIS REALLY THE VISION
THAT WE HAVE FOR ANN ARBOR?
>> I DON'T THINK IT IS AND IT'S
NOT CONSISTENT WITH OUR CLIMATE
AND ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS NOR
WITH OUR DESIRE TO INCREASE NOR
WITH OUR DESIRE TO INCREASE
EQUITY.
SO THIS BODY HAS CONSISTENTLY
VOTED IN FAVOR OF CLIMATE
ACTION POLLINATORS THE RIVER
AND PERHAPS MORE THAN ANYTHING
PEOPLE AND YOU HAVE ANOTHER
CHANCE TO DO IT TONIGHT STAFF
HAVE TOLD US THAT RUNNING THE
GOLF COURSE IN A WAY THAT IS
CONSISTENT WITH OUR IDEALS IS
NOT FEASIBLE WITHOUT NEW MAJOR
FUNDING OR GRANTS IF THE ONLY
WAY TO RUN THESE GOLF COURSES
IS WITH DIRTY SMALL INTERNAL
COMBUSTION ENGINES, THEN WHY
ARE WE DOING IT?
THERE ARE OTHER COURSES FOR THE
GOLFERS OF NRA TO USE INCLUDING
THREE WITHIN THE CITY LIMITS
AND TEN TEN WITHIN AN EIGHT
MILE RADIUS OF DOWNTOWN.
>> THE CITY DOES NOT NEED TO
RUN GOLF COURSES.
IT'S OK TO VOTE AGAINST GOLF
TONIGHT BECAUSE IT'S A VOTE IN
FAVOR OF THE POLLINATORS THE
WILDLIFE AND THE RIVER AND IN
FAVOR OF OUR CLIMATE ACTION
GOALS AND IN FAVOR OF THE
PEOPLE AND THE FAMILIES WHO
WILL USE THIS NEW PARKLAND FOR
WALKING, HIKING, JOGGING,
SOCCER, BIRDING, PICNICKING, ET
CETERA, ET CETERA WITHOUT GOLF
.
>> THESE COULD BE AMAZING PARKS
THAT ANYONE CAN USE.
>> IMAGINE THE RESIDENTS IN
ARROWOOD AND PONTIAC TRAIL
WALKING TO KROGER AND THE
LIBRARY BRANCH.
>> IT WOULD BE HALF THE
DISTANCE THAT THEY HAVE TO WALK
TODAY WHEN THEY GO AROUND THE
GOLF COURSE.
>> PLEASE DON'T LOCK US INTO
ANOTHER FIVE YEARS AND EIGHT
HUNDRED AND FORTY THOUSAND
DOLLARS FOR GOLF EQUIPMENT.
>> PLEASE VOTE FOR THE
ENVIRONMENT AND FOR ACCESS FOR
ALL PLEASE VOTE NO.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ALAN VEBER
.
HELLO COUNCIL.
I'VE SENT YOU ALL THIS MORNING
THE A LETTER ABOUT AN ARTICLE
AND THEN THE TEXT OF AN ARTICLE
BY PETER WELL I DO HOPE YOU'LL
READ IT ABOUT PALESTINE AND
ABOUT LAND TENURE ABOUT THE
COMMONS INDEED MY OWN NOTE HERE
WAS THE TITLE WAS A COMMONS IN
PALESTINE AND SOMEHOW THE
COMMONS AGAIN
GOT CUT OFF.
BUT PETER DESCRIBED THE
TRADITIONAL LAND SHARING IN
PALESTINE OF WHICH I KNEW
NOTHING AND I EXPECT YOU DON'T
KNOW MUCH EITHER AND THE
OTTOMAN AND BRITISH LAND
OVERSIGHT AND THE ZIONIST
OCCUPATION THAT IS DISPOSSESSED
THE INDIGENOUS SOCIETY AND WAY
SIMILAR TO WHAT HAPPENED IN
AMERICA.
HE SHOWS HOLDING IN COMMON
RATHER THAN BY PRICE ALLOW
RESILIENT SOCIAL ORGANIZATION
AND THAT USA MAINTAINS IS THE
ISRAELI OCCUPATION WITHOUT
REGARD TO THE PALESTINIAN
RIGHTS OR SOCIETY.
THIS IS THE QUESTION TO
CONSIDER ABOUT USA ISRAEL IT IS
NOT JUST MONEY IS MONEY
DESTROYING PALESTINIAN SOCIETY
QUITE APART FROM WHAT IS GOING
ON IN GAZA WHICH IS HORRENDOUS
ENOUGH.
KATHY GRISWOLD ONCE PROPOSED A
COMMUNITY DISCUSSION ON
PALESTINE WHEN SHE WAS A
COUNCIL MEMBER AND FROM WHICH
THE COUNCIL QUICKLY DISTANCED
ITSELF.
BUT NOW IN CURRENT TIME THIS
COUNCIL HAS ENTERED THE
DISCUSSION WITH A RESOLUTION IN
THE CITY BOARD HAS ENTERED THE
DISCUSSION ENCOURAGING
DISCUSSION AND PERHAPS IT IS
TIME TO RETURN TO THE QUESTION
OF PALESTINE AND OUR TAX
DOLLARS SUPPORTING THE ISRAELI
OCCUPIED AND THE WAR IN
AGGREGATE.
I FIGURED ONCE ABOUT 22 DOLLARS
PER PERSON EVEN BABIES PER YEAR
FROM EVERYONE AND OUR GOES TO
ISRAEL WE SHOULD SEEK MORE JOB
SITUATION BEFORE WE GIVE
ACQUIESCENCE IMPLICIT SILENCE
TO WHAT IS GOING ON IN THE
DESTRUCTION OF PALESTINIAN
SOCIAL STRUCTURE BESIDES OTHER
INDIGNITIES BUT EVEN MORE AND
YOU SHOULD READ ABOUT PALESTINE
AND NATIVE AMERICA AND SEEING
WHAT THE COMMON WOULD MEAN IN
OUR CITY OF NETWORKS AND
COOPERATION AND MUTUAL AID
AROUND THE CENTER OF THE CITY
PUBLIC LAND EXTENDING OUT IN
ALL DIRECTIONS IN THE COMMUNITY
FOR FIVE YEARS AND FOUR MONTHS
THE CITY COUNCIL AND STAFF AND
DENHA AND YOUR ANTECEDENTS
BLOCKED THE REALIZATION OF THE
PEOPLE'S VERY SIMPLE ROAD TO
CREATE A CENTRAL PARK AND CIVIC
CENTER AND IN THE CENTER OF THE
CITY I HOPE YOU WILL READ
PETER'S COUNTERPUNCH YOUR OWN
STARK REFUSAL TO RECOGNIZE THE
COMMONS SHOULD BRING SHAME TO
YOUR FACES FOR THAT I'LL LOOK
AT YOU AND MAYBE YOU'VE NEVER
LOOKED AT THIS WAY BUT GOT THE
CARS OFF THE LIBRARY.
WELL THANK AND OPEN A
DISCUSSION ON PALESTINE.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS VALERIE
SNOWDROP
.
VALERIE SNOWDON
MAYOR, THE CALLER IS SUPPOSED
TO BE IN PERSON
.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KIRK
WESTFALL
.
GOOD EVENING.
COUNCIL ON SEPTEMBER 14TH.
TWENTY TWENTY TWO AT
APPROXIMATELY EIGHT A.M. A
DRIVER STOPPED IN THE RIGHT
LANE OF A FOUR LANE BOULEVARD
IN SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA.
SHE SAW THAT A MAN HAD
ACTIVATED THE FLASHING
PEDESTRIAN SIGNAL AND HE AND
TWO SMALL CHILDREN WERE WAITING
TO CROSS.
>> BUT AS MANY OF US KNOW, ONE
DRIVER STOPPED IN A CROSSWALK
DOESN'T GUARANTEE THAT DRIVERS
IN THE OTHER LANE WILL STOP
THIS IS CALLED A DOUBLE THREAT.
I'M GOING TO SHOW YOU MORNING
FOOTAGE OF A NEAR MISS HERE.
SO AT THAT MOMENT A TEENAGE
DRIVER SPED PAST THE STOP
VEHICLE AT A HIGH RATE OF SPEED
JUST AS THE YOUNG DAUGHTER WENT
SLIGHTLY AHEAD OF THE GROUP AND
RODE HER SCOOTER INTO THE LEFT
LANE.
>> THE PASSING DRIVER STRUCK
THE SCOOTER WITH HIS SUV
TEARING IT OUT OF HER GRIP BUT
MIRACULOUSLY MISSED HITTING THE
GIRL BY A MATTER OF INCHES.
>> HAD THIS HAPPENED JUST ONE
SECOND LATER THE STORY WOULD
HAVE HAD A DIFFERENT ENDING IN
NEWS INTERVIEWS, NEIGHBORS
REPORTED HAVING CONTACTED THE
CITY REPEATEDLY ABOUT NEAR
MISSES AT THIS CROSSWALK.
BUT THE CITY DID NOTHING THIS
TIME THE CITY IMMEDIATELY
CLOSED DOWN IN THE OUTER LANE
OF THE FOUR LANE BOULEVARD
SEXPOTS ALTHOUGH FRAMED AS A
TEMPORARY MEASURE BY THE CITY,
THE LANE CLOSURE REMAINS IN
PLACE TODAY.
SO WHY DID THE SAN MATEO CITY
MANAGER AT THIS TIME BUT NOT
BEFORE?
OBVIOUSLY IT'S BECAUSE THE STOP
DRIVER HAPPENED TO HAVE A DASH
CAM THAT CAPTURED THE NEAR
TRAGEDY, POSTED IT AND A VIDEO
MADE THE ROUNDS ON
NEWS CHANNELS AND SOCIAL MEDIA.
>> HOW MUCH DID IT COST THE
CITY TO CLOSE DOWN THIS LANE?
HARDLY ANYTHING.
NO STUDIES, NO CONSULTANT, NO
WAITING IN LINE FOR THE CHP.
THEY JUST DID IT BECAUSE THE
DANGER WAS MADE PUBLICLY AND
EMBARRASSINGLY OBVIOUS.
ONE OF THE STATED REASONS THAT
UNAN PAST THE COMMITMENT TO
EVALUATE RECONFIGURING ALL
NUMBERS MULTI-LINE RHODES'S
THAT YOU RECOGNIZE THAT MULTI
LANE ROADS ARE INHERENTLY
DANGEROUS FOR ALL USERS.
WE HAVE NATIONAL AND LOCAL DATA
THAT SAYS THIS OVER AND OVER.
WE HAVE DATA THAT SHOWS HOW
CRASHES AND INJURIES DROP
IMMEDIATELY WHEN OUR PUBLIC
RIGHT OF WAY IS USED IN A
SENSIBLE MANNER.
MY HOPE IS THAT OUR COMMITMENT
TO VISION ZERO THE TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE DEADLINE TO END
INJURIES AND FATALITIES AND THE
PASSAGE OF THE RECONFIGURATION
DIRECTIVE WOULD MAKE IT CLEAR
TO CITY LEADERSHIP THAT WE
DON'T NEED TO STUDY THESE
THINGS ANYMORE.
WE NEED TO TAKE ACTION AND YET
WE'RE HEARING WARNINGS FROM
STAFF THAT EACH OF THESE
RECONFIGURATIONS WILL SOMEHOW
REQUIRE LARGE STUDY AND COST A
LOT OF MONEY THAT WE DON'T
HAVE.
I THINK THIS IS AN INCORRECT
AND DANGEROUS POSITION.
I THINK OF THE HEALTHY STREETS
INITIATIVE AND HOW QUICKLY THAT
WAS IMPLEMENTED AND THAT WAS AT
A TIME WHEN THERE WAS SOME FEAR
OUT THERE TRANSMISSION COULD
TAKE PLACE THAT TURNED OUT TO
BE LARGELY UNTRUE BUT IT WAS
WORTH DOING JUST IN CASE THE
DIFFERENCE WITH MULTI LANE
ROADS IS THAT WE DO KNOW THAT
INJURIES HAPPEN FROM LEAVING
OUR STREETS THE WAY THEY ARE.
LET'S FIX THEM NOW THERE ARE A
LOT OF THINGS THAT WE CAN'T
CONTROL ABOUT CAR USE IN THIS
COUNTRY BUT WE DO HAVE THE
TOOLS TO STOP ROAD INJURIES IN
OUR BORDERS AS OTHER CITIES
HAVE AND THAT MEANS THE
RESPONSIBILITY ULTIMATELY RESTS
WITH YOU.
I'M ASKING YOU TO TAKE A TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE DEADLINE SERIOUSLY
AND REJECT THE NOTION THAT
EXPENSIVE STUDIES NEED TO BE
DONE FOR EVERY PROJECT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MOSHIN
CHAABI FUNNY.
>> HELLO ANN UP TO THE SPEAKERS
BEFORE ME WHO ASKED FOR THIS
ASSEMBLY TO BE KIND I HAVE TO
ONLY REMIND YOU THAT IT'S ONE
HUNDRED AND FIFTY DAYS OF A
GENOCIDE IN GAZA WITH ONE
HUNDRED THOUSAND PEOPLE KILLED,
MISSING OR UNDER RUBBLE OR
INJURED AND THIS ASSEMBLY HAS
NOT SAID ONE WORD AGAINST THAT
GENOCIDE.
SO IF YOU'RE LOOKING FOR
KINDNESS, FORGET ABOUT THIS
BUNCH.
IF YOU'RE LOOKING FOR A CLEAN
ENVIRONMENT WHICH WAS ANOTHER
SPEAKER SPEAKING AGAIN, DON'T
LOOK TO THIS BUNCH BECAUSE I
HAVE BEEN WATCHING AND
PROTESTING THEIR COMPLICITY IN
KEEPING OUR ENVIRONMENT CLEAN
FOR TWENTY TWO YEARS AND THEY
WILL EVERY TIME VOTE FOR A
DIRTIER PLACE.
THEY DO NOT CLEAN UP OUR
WATERS.
THEY DO NOT CARE FOR PUBLIC
HEALTH IN THIS TOWN.
THEY DO CARE HOWEVER FOR THEIR
CONTRIBUTORS AND THEY WILL MAKE
POLICIES THAT WILL BENEFIT
THOSE CONTRIBUTORS OF THE
ELECTION.
BUT WHEN IT COMES TO ELECTIONS
SO I AM HERE TO INVITE EVERYONE
IN ANN ARBOR TO GET ENGAGED,
VOTE THESE GUYS OUT BECAUSE
THEY HAVE SHOWN US WHAT THEY
ARE ALL ABOUT.
THEY ARE ABOUT MAINTAINING
THEIR POWER AT THE COST OF OUR
HEALTH AND OUR ENVIRONMENT AND
FORGET ABOUT HUMANITY.
>> THEY DO NOT HAVE AN OUNCE
OF IT IN PALESTINE EVERY DAY
CHILDREN ARE DYING
OF STARVATION AND OUR CITY
COUNCIL SAID ONE THING ABOUT IT
THEY HAVEN'T IN PALESTINE EVERY
DAY CHILDREN ARE DYING
OF PREVENTABLE DISEASES.
HAVE THEY SAID ONE THING ABOUT
IT?
NO, THEY HAVEN'T.
THESE PEOPLE KNOW NOTHING ABOUT
KINDNESS.
THEY KNOW NOTHING ABOUT
HUMANITY.
THEY KNOW NOTHING ABOUT TAKING
CARE OF THE POPULATION.
THEY KNOW HOW TO TAKE CARE
OF THEIR OWN POCKETS, THEIR
WEALTH AND THEIR INFLUENCE.
THAT IS WHAT DEMOCRATIC PARTY
IS ABOUT AND DEMOCRATIC PARTY
THESE PEOPLE OR THEIR MEMBERS.
NOW THE GOOD NEWS IS THAT
STUDENTS ACROSS UNITED STATES
HAVE BECOME ACTIVATED.
THEY HATE ISRAEL FOR VERY GOOD
REASONS.
THEY ARE HATING THE DEMOCRATIC
PARTY FOR VERY GOOD REASONS
BECAUSE GENOCIDE THEY ARE
GENOCIDAL MANIACS AND THEY WILL
BE THE ENGINE BEHIND A CHANGE A
FUNDAMENTAL CHANGE IN THIS
COUNTRY, THIS COUNTRY WAS BUILT
ON THE BLOOD OF NATIVES THE
SAME AS ISRAELIS DOING IN GAZA
RIGHT NOW THIS COUNTRY WAS
BUILT ON THE BACKS OF BLACK
PEOPLE AND THIS COUNTRY IS VERY
MUCH LIKE ISRAEL.
IT WILL CHANGE BECAUSE STUDENTS
HAVE WOKEN UP BECAUSE THE
PUBLIC DOES NOT LIKE ISRAEL ANY
THEY WANT TO CUT OFF THE
MILITARY AND ALL KINDS OF AIDS
TO THE GENOCIDAL SIC STATE NAZI
STATE THAT ISRAEL NOW WE CAN'T
DO THAT.
WE PUT PEOPLE LIKE THIS.
THESE PEOPLE ARE THEMSELVES
RACIST AND THEY CANNOT DELIVER
IT.
THANK YOU.
I KNOW PEOPLE IN ORDER TO VOTE
THEM OUT AND SAY TO THEM THANK
YOU, THANK HERE SO THEY CAN DO
WHAT'S NECESSARY, GET INVOLVED
AND LET THEM OUT AND THEY
SHOULD BE KICKED OUT AND THE
TIME HAS EXPIRED.
>> THANK YOU.
NEXT NEWS .
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU MA'AM.
YOU ARE DESTROYING THE YEAH
YEAH WE WE WE REGULARLY SEE
DISRUPTION AND WE HAVE
COUNSELED BUSINESS TO DO AND
WHEN ONE PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL
CONTINUES THOSE DISRUPTIONS
WHAT IS OUR POLICY ON
MOVING
FORWARD WITH THE BUSINESS
OF OUR MEETING?
>> WE WILL REVIEW THAT VIEW
THAT IN COUNCIL RULES OUR NEXT
SPEAKER IS KATHY GRISWOLD.
>> GOOD EVENING.
YES, WHAT HAVE YOU SEEN THIS
DIAGRAM BEFORE BUT I'M JUST
BRINGING FORWARD ONE MORE TIME
COOKING SCHOOL IS ON THE NORTH
ST. PAUL SO THESE ARE PUBLIC
WALKWAYS.
WHY WE ARE DEBATING DEBATING
PUBLIC WALKWAYS.
I DON'T KNOW BUT I HAVE AN IDEA
AND SO I WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS
MY COMMENTS TONIGHT TO MAYOR
TAYLOR.
MAYOR TAYLOR WHO I WORKED WITH
FOR FOUR YEARS, MAYOR TAYLOR
WHO I'VE TALKED TO FOR MANY,
MANY YEARS ADVOCATING FOR
PEDESTRIAN SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS
.
WE DO NOT FUND OPERATION THE
WAY WE SHOULD.
WE DON'T HAVE FEEDBACK LOOPS.
>> WE HAVE PROJECTS.
WE HAVE MANY PROJECTS AND
BEFORE WE'RE EVEN DONE WITH THE
PROJECT AND WE'VE EVALUATED IT,
WE'VE GONE ON TO ANOTHER
PROJECT.
>> SO I'M ASKING THAT YOU
PLEASE ADEQUATELY FUND
OPERATIONS, ESPECIALLY
TRANSPORTATION OPERATIONS IN
THE UPCOMING BUDGET BECAUSE IF
WE HAD AN OPERATIONS MANAGER
FOR TRANSPORTATION I THINK THEY
WOULD KNOW THAT WE HAVE DOZENS
OF PUBLIC WALKWAYS THROUGHOUT
OUR CITY.
THOSE PUBLIC WALKWAYS WERE ALL
DOCUMENT IN LITTLE BOOKLETS
THAT WERE AVAILABLE FOR EVERY
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL.
HOWEVER, THIS WAS DONE BEFORE
COMPUTERS UNFORTUNATELY AND SO
WE DON'T HAVE THAT CAPTURE BUT
I'M STILL LOOKING FOR IT.
>> WE ALSO HAVE PRIVATE
WALKWAYS THAT ARE USED BY THE
PUBLIC TO GET TO PLACES WE NEED
TO DOCUMENT THOSE AND WE NEED
TO GET EASEMENTS FOR THEM.
>> WE ALSO NEED TO REALIZE THAT
THESE ARE WALKWAYS.
THEY'RE NOT SIDEWALKS AND THERE
IS NO NEED TO BRING ALL OF THEM
UP TO SIDEWALKS STANDARDS NOR
COULD WE BECAUSE WE WOULD BE
USING FUNDS.
IT SHOULD BE USED FOR OTHER
PURPOSES.
>> SO LET'S FIND OUT EXACTLY
WHAT WE HAVE.
LET'S FUND THE OPERATIONS AND
LET'S TRY TO REACH VISION
VISION ZERO QUICKLY.
>> WE NEED OPTIMAL
ILLUMINATION.
>> I TALK ABOUT IT OVER AND
OVER AGAIN.
WE NEED TO ENFORCE THE
ORDINANCE THAT SAYS YOU NEED TO
TRIM YOUR VEGETAL ON CORNERS
AND OVER THE SIDEWALK AND OVER
BIKE LANES.
THERE IS SOME POSITIVE NEWS A
TO FIX IT SOMEONE IS ACTUALLY
UPDATING IT TODAY THEY CLOSED
FIVE TICKETS FROM 2015.
WE'RE MAKING GOOD PROGRESS TO
KEEP IT UP.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BLAINE
COLEMAN
.
>> IT LOOKS LIKE JANAYA HAS RUN
AWAY FROM THE ROOM AND SHE HAS
GOOD REASON BECAUSE I'M GOING
TO REMIND YOU THAT I TOOK
CAMPAIGN MONEY FROM OLD FRIENDS
OF THE ISRAEL DEFENSE FORCES.
SHE TOOK CAMPAIGN MONEY FROM
OLD FRIENDS, OLD FRIENDS OF THE
ISRAEL DEFENSE FORCES AND AS
YOU ALL KNOW, THE ISRAEL
DEFENSE FORCES IS A GENOCIDAL
RACIST BODY WHICH HAS ALREADY
MURDERED AT LEAST THIRTY EIGHT
THOUSAND PALESTINIANS.
GOD KNOWS HOW MANY ARE BURIED
UNDER CONCRETE WHERE YOU CAN
NEVER FIND THEM.
GOD KNOWS HOW MANY HAVE BEEN
BURIED INSIDE THE STREETS.
AT LEAST THIRTY EIGHT THOUSAND
PALESTINIANS HAVE BEEN MURDERED
WITH YOUR TAX MONEY BY THE
ISRAEL DEFENSE FORCES.
JANAYA TOOK CAMPAIGN MONEY FROM
OLD FRIENDS THE ISRAEL DEFENSE
FORCES.
NO WONDER SHE RAN AWAY FROM HER
ROOM.
>> NOW THERE IS A LITTLE SECRET
THAT THE CITY COUNCIL IS NOT IN
ON WHICH IS THERE IS TREMENDOUS
POWER IN THE ANN ARBOR AREA
MUSLIM COMMUNITY AND YOU IT
HERE HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE PACKING
THESE CHAMBERS UNTIL THIS
UNFEELING, INHUMAN CITY COUNCIL
FINALLY FINALLY WAS FORCED TO
VOTE FOR A VERY MILD CEASE FIRE
RESOLUTION THAT POWER
OF HUNDREDS OF MEMBERS OF THE
ANN ARBOR AREA MUSLIM COMMUNITY
CAN BE HARNESSED TO REPLACE
THIS ENTIRE CITY COUNCIL WITH
PEOPLE WHO GIVE A ABOUT THE
PALESTINIAN PEOPLE, PEOPLE WHO
CARE ABOUT PALESTINIAN LIFE AND
ABOUT HUMAN LIFE IN GENERAL.
>> AND I'M NOT EVEN TALKING
ABOUT THE GIANT POWER
OF THOUSANDS OF UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN STUDENTS WHO HAVE
BEEN MARCHING FOR PALESTINIAN
HUMAN RIGHTS.
I'M NOT EVEN TALKING ABOUT THE
POWER OF THE BSA, THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALISTS
OF AMERICA.
I'M NOT EVEN TALKING ABOUT THE
POWER OF THE JEWISH VOICES FOR
PEACE OR THE POWER OF STUDENTS
ALLIED FOR FREEDOM AND EQUALITY
ON THIS CAMPUS SAFE THE POWER
OF THESE GROUPS WHO HAVE BEEN
PUBLICLY MARCHING AND PUBLICLY
MOBILIZING FOR PALESTINIAN
HUMAN RIGHTS IF IT ALL CAME
TOGETHER IN THESE COUNCIL
MEETINGS IT WOULD FORCE THIS
UNFEELING INHUMAN COUNCIL TO
APPROVE A RESOLUTION AGAINST
MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL.
THE MINNEAPOLIS CITY COUNCIL
HAS ALREADY APPROVED SUCH A
RESOLUTION.
THE RICHMOND, CALIFORNIA CITY
COUNCIL HAS ALREADY APPROVED
SUCH A RESOLUTION AND BIGEYE
THIS UNFEELING AND HUMAN
PROFOUNDLY RACIST AND HOMICIDAL
AND ARBOR CITY COUNCIL WILL
ALSO BE FORCED TO APPROVE A
RESOLUTION AGAINST MILITARY AID
TO ISRAEL.
THANK YOU.
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM COUNCIL
COUNTS?
MARSONE
I'VE SPOKEN BEFORE HOW
APPRECIATIVE I AM WHEN THE
COMMUNITY IS ABLE TO THINK
CRITICALLY AND COMPASSIONATELY
ABOUT THE ANTI-SEMITISM THAT
OCCURS IN OUR OWN COMMUNITY AND
HOW WE CAN TALK ABOUT THE PAIN
AND SUFFERING IN THE WORLD AND
SEPARATE THAT SEPARATE THAT
FROM ANTI-SEMITISM.
>> SO AS WE SPEAK TO THE
SUFFERING I REALLY I THINK THE
MUSLIM COMMUNITY FOR COMING TO
SPEAK TO AND I THANK THEM FOR
NOT JOINING SOME FOLKS IN THIS
ROOM IN PROTESTING OUTSIDE THE
SYNAGOGUE FOR TWO DECADES.
IT SHOULD BE A LONELY ENDEAVOR.
I WISH IT WOULDN'T EVEN BE AN
ENDEAVOR IN OUR CITY WHERE TIME
AND TIME AGAIN EVERY SATURDAY
WHERE GENERATIONS OF JEWISH
JEWISH CHILDREN HAVE TO COME
OF AGE AND TELL COMMUNITY
MEMBERS WHO COME FROM OUTSIDE
OF ANN ARBOR DO NOT ENGAGE THE
PROTESTERS OUTSIDE OF OUR HOUSE
OF WORSHIP OR WHEN SYNAGOGUES
HAVE TO FUNDRAISE FOR SAFETY
CONCERNS AROUND THIS.
>> SO YES, SPEAK TO THE PAIN
AND SUFFERING IN THE WORLD AND
WHAT'S GOING ON PALESTINE.
>> BUT I HOPE I DO NOT SEE YOU
MARCHING ALONGSIDE SOME OF THE
FOLKS IN THIS ROOM INSIST ON
HOW THIS DOES NOT HAPPEN
OUTSIDE THE MOSQUE.
IT DOES NOT HAPPEN OUTSIDE
OF ANY OTHER HOUSE OF WORSHIP.
>> NO, EXCEPT FOR THE SYNAGOGUE
TO OUR COMMUNITY.
SHAME.
>> LET ME MOVE TO MORE
LIGHTHEARTED NEWS AND THEREFORE
CAN TALK ABOUT KAMEI COMMENTS
AND HOW WE FUND COMMUNITY
COMMENTS.
THE ANTARIA SKATE PARK WILL
HAVE A FUNDRAISER AT THE END
OF THIS MONTH.
>> IT'S A SKATE PARK AUCTION SO
THANK YOU TO ALL THE ARTISTS,
THE CHILDREN ACROSS GENERATIONS
WHO CONTRIBUTE THEIR ARTWORK IN
TIME ENERGY TO HELP FUND ALL
GIRLS SKATE WHICH IS A PROGRAM
THAT HAS OCCURRED FOR I THINK
THE PAST FIVE, SIX YEARS SINCE
WE'VE HAD THIS WHERE VOLUNTEERS
COME OUT AND TEACH GIRLS TO
SKATE.
SO I ENCOURAGE TO COME AND TAKE
A LOOK AT THE SKATEBOARDS AND
PARTICIPATE IN SUPPORTING A
VERY POPULAR PROGRAM TO
COMMUNITY PARK FURTHER
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL
COUNCIL MEMBER GUSCIORA.
I THANK YOU MAYOR.
YOU KNOW, I WANT TO SAY
SOMETHING REALLY QUICK ABOUT
SOME OF THE COMMENTS THAT DR.
MAJKEN MADE.
I AM FROM THE MUSLIM COMMUNITY
.
I GREW UP IN THE MUSLIM
COMMUNITY.
THE DIVISIVE RHETORIC AND SIDE
SHOW THAT SHE AND BLAEN PUT OUT
THESE CHAMBERS IS UNACCEPTABLE
AND IT HAS BEEN RACIST AND
THERE ARE TIMES WHERE IT HAS
BEEN ANTI-SEMITIC.
I REMEMBER GROWING UP AND
HAVING PEOPLE PROTEST OUTSIDE
OF THE MOSQUE AGAINST IRAQ.
DOES THAT MAKE ANY SENSE?
>> A POLITICAL BODY A REGIME
HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH THE
RELIGION AND THE TWO NEED TO BE
MADE SEPARATE.
>> BUT I RESENT THAT YOU COME
HERE PRETENDING TO TALK ON
BEHALF OF A COMMUNITY THAT IS
NOT A MONOLITH AND WE HAVE SAID
SOMETHING HERE AND IF YOU
REALLY CARED ABOUT THIS ISSUE
YOU WOULD GO AND TAKE POLITICAL
ACTION AT THE STATE OR FEDERAL
LEVELS OF GOVERNMENT OR THERE
ARE PEOPLE THERE WHO ACTUALLY
VOTE AND MAKE THESE DECISIONS
AND INSTEAD OF THE PERFORMANCE
CONTINUES AND REVOLVES AROUND
DR. MAJKEN SELF-SERVING
CAMPAIGNS EACH ELECTION CYCLE
SO THAT SHE CAN BE ELECTED TO
CITY COUNCIL.
>> WHAT SHE'S DONE IS DIVISIVE
AND IT'S BAD FOR OUR COMMUNITY
AND I KNOW MANY WHO STRIVE TO
DISASSOCIATE HERSELF BOTH FROM
BOTH OF YOU COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON
THIS SUNDAY, MARCH 10TH,
I'LL BE ATTENDING A COMMUNITY
FORUM HOSTED BY THE ORCHARD
HILLS MAPLEWOOD HOME OWNERS
ASSOCIATION.
BUT OPEN TO ALL RESIDENTS
OF THE SURROUNDING AREA AT ZOPP
AT TRAVER VILLAGE FROM THREE TO
FOUR P.M. THERE WILL BE UPDATES
FROM
THE ORCHARD HILLS,
MAPLEWOOD AND BROMLEY
NEIGHBORHOODS THURSTON
COMMUNITY AND PTO FIRST IN
NATURE CENTER OH HECK DOLPHIN
POOLS AND THE THURSTON
COMMUNITY PLAYERS.
IF YOU LIVE IN OR HAVE AN
INTEREST IN THE NORTH SIDE I
HOPE TO SEE YOU THERE.
>> I'D LIKE TO DRAW RESIDENTS
ATTENTION TO ACT TWO WHICH IS
THE ANN ARBOR HOUSING
COMMISSION SIX MONTH UPDATE ON
THE FISCAL YEAR TWENTY FOR
MARIJUANA EXCISE TAX
EXPENDITURE SOME HIGHLIGHTS
OF WHAT WE'VE ACHIEVED WITH
THIS PROGRAM AND MANY OF THOSE
WERE FROM COUNCIL BUDGET
AMENDMENTS.
SOME HIGHLIGHTS INCLUDE TWO
HUNDRED AND NINETY NINE
HOUSEHOLDS THAT WERE ASSISTED
WITH EVICTION PREVENTION
FUNDING, THE RISING HOPE FOR
HOUSING PROGRAM WHICH WAS SET
UP IN CONVERSATION WITH VARIOUS
COMMUNITY LEADERS INCLUDING OUR
VERY OWN CYNTHIA HARRISON TO
AID HOUSEHOLDS WHO HAVE TENANT
BASED HOUSING TENANT BASED
HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHERS AND WHO
ARE JUST AS IMPACTED TO SUPPORT
THESE FAMILIES THROUGH CLIENT
CENTERED TRAUMA INFORMED
SERVICES AND TO IMPROVE HOUSING
STABILITY.
THIS PROGRAM HELPED 15
HOUSEHOLDS PER MONTH AND
CONTINUES TO GROW AND THERE
WERE ALSO GRANTS TO 11
ORGANIZATIONS FOR LOW INCOME
YOUTH SERVICES.
I REALLY ENCOURAGE PEOPLE TO
LOOK THROUGH THE REPORT AND
AGENCY SPECIFIC REPORTS.
THIS SHOWS HOW MUCH POSITIVE
GOOD WE CAN DO IN THE COMMUNITY
THROUGH THE MARIJUANA EXCISE
TAX REBATE FURTHER
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL
.
I WOULD LIKE TO REQUEST
CONFIRMATION OF THE FOLLOWING
APPOINTMENT THAT WAS PRESENTED
TO COUNCIL FOR CONSIDERATION ON
FEBRUARY TWENTY TWENTY TWO FOR
REGULAR SESSION TO THE HOUSING
HUMAN SERVICES ADVISORY BOARD
ROBERT BOWLEY HAVE A MOTION
PLEASE MOVE BY COUNCILMAN BURR
WATSON, MY COUNCIL MEMBER
OF DENHA DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED IT IS APPROVED.
>> I'D LIKE TO RECOMMEND THE
FOLLOWING NOMINATION FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION AT THE COMMISSION
ON DISABILITY ISSUES SAM
EICHENBAUM
WE NOW HAVE BEFORE
US THE CONSENT AGENDA.
>> MOVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE CONSENT OF THE
GENERAL BY COUNCIL MEMBER
CORNELL SICKENED BY COUNCILOR
DISHED WE'VE LITTLE EXTRA QUIET
IN THE IN THE GALLERY PLEASE.
THANK YOU.
DISCUSSION OF THE CONSENT
AGENDA COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
I DON'T WANT TO PULL ANYTHING.
I JUST WANTED TO SAY THAT I'M
EXCITED TO SEE THAT WE ARE
ACQUIRING OR WE WILL BE IF WE
VOTE TO APPROVE OVER FORTY FIVE
ACRES OF PROPERTY THAT FEATURES
RICH FARMLAND AND WETLANDS.
THAT'S EXCITING AND I'M ALSO
VERY EXCITED TO SEE THAT WE'RE
APPROVING A CONSTRUCTION
CONTRACT FOR THE RENOVATIONS
THAT WILL ENABLE SUPPORTIVE
CONNECTIONS TO MOVE OVER HERE
TO CITY HALL AND BE IN A
PROPERLY FURNISHED SPACE WITH
SOME WINDOWS WHERE PEOPLE DO
NOT NEED TO ENTER THE JUSTICE
BUILDING TO HAVE SUPPORT FOR
BEING DEFLECTED FROM THAT
SYSTEM.
SO THAT'S REALLY EXCITING FOR
THE DISCUSSION COUNCIL BRATTEN
I WANTED TO EXPRESS MY
GRATITUDE TO YOU FOR NOT
SCHEDULING OUR SPRING GAME THE
SAME WEEKEND AS HARSH BASH THIS
YEAR.
SO I WAS HAPPY TO SEE THE
MONROE STREET CLOSURE THAT'S
ASSOCIATED WITH AZPEITIA.
I REMEMBER LAST YEAR AT THIS
TIME THERE WAS QUITE A BIT
OF CONSTERNATION ABOUT OUR
ABILITY TO PROVIDE EMERGENCY
SERVICES AND PLAN FOR THAT.
>> SO HAPPY TO SEE IT.
>> THE DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED IT IS APPROVED.
ELEVEN COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
ALL VOTED IN THE AFFIRMATIVE TO
SATISFY THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT TO THE
ONE TO A THREE C THIRTEEN THAT
IS WE NOW COME TO A SET
OF PUBLIC HEARINGS.
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY ABOUT
THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING WHAT TO
SPEAK TO PUBLIC HEARING ONE
NEED NOT HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BUT YOUR SPEECH MUST
RELATE TO THE SUBJECT MATTER
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING THAT IS
TO SAY THE AGENDA ITEM TO WHICH
THE PUBLIC HEARING RELATES
SPEAKERS IN ALL INSTANCES IN
HOUSE AND ONLINE WILL HAVE
THREE MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK
.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK OR THE
TIME CLOCK WILL NOTIFY YOU IN
THIRTY SECONDS ARE REMAINING
AND WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED
WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED
PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS
AND CEDE THE FLOOR PUBLIC
HEARING NUMBER ONE AN AUDIENCE
TO AMEND SECTIONS EIGHT FIVE
ZERO AND EIGHT FIVE THREE ONE
OF CHAPTER ONE ZERO FIVE
HOUSING CODE OF TITLE SEVEN
BUILDING REGULATIONS OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
>> IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
?
GOOD EVENING COUNCIL.
MY NAME IS ZACHARIA AND I AM A
RESIDENT IN WARD TWO.
I'M HERE AS A RENTER OF COURSE
AND AS A MEMBER OF THE TENANTS
UNION AND I'M HERE TO SUPPORT
THE AMENDMENT TO EIGHT FIVE
THIRTY AND EIGHT FIVE THIRTY
ONE ALSO KNOWN AS THE EARLY
LEASING ORDINANCE AND THE RIGHT
TO RENEW THIS AMENDMENT
INCREASES THE CLARITY OF THESE
ORDINANCES AND IMPORTANTLY
CLOSES LOOPHOLES THAT HAVE BEEN
EXPLOITED BY BAD LANDLORDS
NAMELY THE EARLY BIRD SPECIAL
LOOPHOLE WHICH IS IN EFFECT A
RETALIATORY RENT INCREASE
AGAINST TENANTS THAT DARE TO
EXERCISE THEIR RIGHTS.
I WANT TO THANK ALL THE
SPONSORS OF THIS AMENDMENT ONE
OF THE BIGGEST SUCCESSES
OF THESE TWO ORDINANCES IS THE
NEAR ELIMINATION OF NOMINAL
LEASES AS RETALIATION AGAINST
TENANTS.
I'VE SPOKEN TO MANY TENANTS
ABOUT THIS AND THANKS TO THESE
ORDINANCES THERE ARE MANY
TENANTS WHO HAVE FELT SECURE
ENOUGH TO DEMAND REPAIRS FROM
THE LANDLORDS TO SUBMIT
COMPLAINTS WITH RENTAL HOUSING
SERVICES AND TO ORGANIZE WITH
THEIR NEIGHBORS BEFORE TENANTS
WERE VERY FRIGHTENED OF NOT
RENEWAL AS RETALIATION.
AS I MENTIONED, THIS AMENDMENT
WILL STRENGTHEN THESE IMPORTANT
ORDINANCES AND SHOULD BE
PASSED.
>> HOWEVER, THERE ARE OTHER
PRESSING RENTAL PROBLEMS THAT
ARE NOT ADDRESSED IN THIS
AMENDMENT IN PARTICULAR BAD
LANDLORDS WHO HAVE BEEN
CHARGING PROSPECTIVE TENANTS
WAITLIST DEPOSIT'S FOR OCCUPIED
UNITS AS YOU ALL KNOW, THIS IS
A GROWING PROBLEM IN OUR CITY.
SO IF A TENANT RIGHT NOW IS
LOOKING FOR A PLACE TO LIVE IN
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR, THEY ARE
NOW BEING ASKED TO PAY HUNDREDS
OR EVEN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS TO
SECURE A SPOT ON JUST A
WAITLIST.
IN ONE CASE WE FOUND CAMPUS
MANAGEMENT WHICH ACTUALLY THEIR
OFFICE IS RIGHT NEXT DOOR IS
CURRENTLY CHARGING TENANTS SIX
THOUSAND SEVEN HUNDRED FORTY
FIVE DOLLARS FOR A TWO BEDROOM
APARTMENT.
>> NOW CAMPUS MANAGEMENT
ACTUALLY HAS HAD WAITLISTS FOR
OVER A DECADE BUT THE NEW
DEVELOPMENT IS THAT NOW THEY
CHARGE FOR IT NO GUARANTEE.
THERE'S NO GUARANTEE IT COMES
WITH THAT THAT THEY THAT THE
TENANT WOULD GET THE UNIT AND
LANDLORDS HAVE DIFFERENT NAMES
FOR THESE AGREEMENTS AND THE
DEPOSIT SOME CALL THEM
RESERVATION FEES, OTHERS CALL
THEM WAITLIST FEES.
SOME CALL THEM OPTIONS OR OR
HOLDING FEES ACROSS THE BOARD.
>> THEY ARE ALL WRONG AND THEY
SHOULD BE BANNED.
>> MANY OF THESE BAD LANDLORD
PRACTICES ARE POSSIBLE BECAUSE
OF A LACK OF REGULATION.
THAT'S A REALITY THAT I HOPE
YOU'LL CONTINUE TO CHANGE BUT
ALSO BECAUSE OF THE HOUSING
SHORTAGE IN OUR CITY AS I KNOW
YOU ALL ARE ALL AWARE AND
THAT'S THE CORE ISSUE AND I'M
GRATEFUL THAT YOU ARE COMMITTED
TO ADDRESSING THAT SHORTAGE
THROUGH VARIOUS POLICY
APPROACHES.
AND IN THAT SAME VEIN, I WANT
TO EXPRESS SUPPORT FOR THESE
ZONING CHANGES PROPOSED BY THE
INTER COOPERATIVE COUNCIL.
>> STUDENT CO-OPS SHOULD BE
BROUGHT INTO COMPLIANCE WITH
ZONING RULES BY AMENDING THOSE
RULES, THE ICC PROVIDES A MODEL
FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING
CURRENTLY MOST MOSTLY FOR
STUDENTS AND YOUNGER RESIDENTS.
BUT WITH THIS COUNCIL SUPPORT
THE COMMONS NEED TO HUGE THE
ITEM.
>> OK, VERY WELL.
I HOPE YOU WILL PASS THIS
AMENDMENT, STRENGTHEN TENANT
PROTECTIONS AND WORK TO THEN
EXPLOITATIVE RENTAL JUNK FEES.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
GOOD EVENING.
THANK YOU EVERYBODY FOR HAVING
AMENDMENTS ON THE AGENDA TODAY
TO THE EARLY LEASING ORDINANCE
AND THE RIGHT TO RIGHT TO RENEW
ORDINANCE.
I AM A FIFTH WARD RENTER.
I'M A MOM.
MY DAUGHTER'S BACK HERE AND I
AM A WIFE.
MY HUSBAND'S A SOCIAL WORKER,
MENTAL HEALTH THERAPIST AND I'M
ALSO CARRIE RUNYON'S, THE STATE
REPRESENTATIVE WHO IS FELLOW
RESIDENT OF ANN ARBOR WITH YOU
ALL I'M HERE TO SPEAK ON BEHALF
OF MORE THAN HALF OF OUR CITY'S
RESIDENTS ARE RENTERS.
YOU ALL KNOW THAT.
BUT WE'RE NOT ALL JUST
STUDENTS.
I AM PART OF A FAMILY JUST
YESTERDAY AS THE TWELVE YEAR
ANNIVERSARY OF ME MOVING IN TO
MY APARTMENT AND THANKFULLY MY
LANDLORD HAS OFFERED US RENEWAL
EVERY YEAR BUT THIS YEAR WAS
THE FIRST YEAR THAT WE HAD FIVE
TIMES THE RENT INCREASE OFFERED
THAN WE HAVE HAD IN THE PAST.
BUT THE POINT THAT I'M MAKING
TO YOU TONIGHT IS THAT THE
STABILITY WE NEED AS FAMILIES
TO STAY IN OUR SCHOOL DISTRICT
TO STAY WITH THE SAME NEIGHBORS
IS REALLY IMPORTANT AND THE
LOOPHOLES THAT YOU'RE CLOSING
WITH YOUR AMENDMENTS ARE GOING
TO HELP FAMILIES LIKE MINE.
YOU KNOW, JUST AS AN EXAMPLE WE
HAD A LOT OF SNOW DAYS.
I HAVE AN ELEMENTARY SCHOOL
STUDENT.
THERE'S A LOT OF ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL STUDENTS WHO LIVE IN OUR
TOWNHOUSE COMPLEX AND YOU CAN'T
REALLY PLAN AHEAD FOR A SNOW
DAY.
BUT WHAT WE WERE ABLE TO DO
SINCE WE'VE BEEN ABLE TO STAY
IN OUR APARTMENT FOR SO LONG
AND BUILD THIS COMMUNITY IS THE
SNOW DAY SHUFFLE WHERE ONE
FAMILY'S HOUSEHOLD TAKES ALL
THE THREE OR FOUR KIDS IN THE
MORNING, THEN THE NEXT FAMILY
TAKES THEM IN THE MIDDLE OF THE
DAY AND THEN THE NEXT FAMILY
TAKES THEM IN THE AFTERNOON.
AND IF WE'RE MOVING EVERY YEAR
BECAUSE WE'RE NOT AFRAID
OF RENEWAL, IF WE CAN'T AFFORD
THE RENT AND WE HAVE TO MOVE
EVERY YEAR THAT CAUSES
INSTABILITY IN OUR FAMILY AND
WE CAN'T STAY AND HAVE THE SNOW
DAY SHUFFLE.
SO I KNOW THAT MORE THAN HALF
OF OUR CITY'S RESIDENTS ARE
RENTERS.
THERE'S THOUSANDS OF FAMILIES
LIKE MINE WHO CAN'T AFFORD TO
BUY IN THE CITY WOULD LOVE TO
HAVE THAT STABILITY BUT WE
CAN'T.
AND SO ENSURING THE RIGHTS
OF RENTERS THROUGH RIGHT TO
RENEW AND THE EARLY LEASING
ORDINANCE AND CLOSING THE
LOOPHOLES IS
VERY IMPORTANT.
OF COURSE THERE ARE SOME
RENTERS WHO ARE BOTH STUDENTS
AND FAMILIES AND OF COURSE WE
CAN'T FORGET OUR ELDERS.
OUR ELDERS ARE ALSO ON AN
INCOME THAT ISN'T GOING TO BE
INCREASING AT THE RATE THAT
RENT MIGHT INCREASE.
SO BEING ABLE TO HAVE THE
STABILITY TO STAY IN OUR RENTAL
PROPERTIES IS VERY IMPORTANT.
THE LAST THING I'LL SAY IS
OBVIOUSLY THIS IS ONLY ONE
PIECE OF THE PUZZLE.
THERE'S STILL A BIG PIECE
OF THE PUZZLE THAT'S MISSING IN
ORDER TO ENFORCE THESE CITY
ORDINANCES AND THAT'S A CHANGE
IN STATE LAW.
AND AS A STATE LEGISLATOR I
HAVE INTRODUCED A BILL TO
SUPPORT THAT AND I'LL KEEP
FIGHTING FOR THAT TO GIVE YOU
THE POWER TO BE ABLE TO REALLY
MAKE THESE ORDINANCE CHANGES
LAST IN OUR CITY.
SO I THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR
SUPPORTING FAMILIES LIKE MINE
AND KEEP UP THE GOOD WORK.
>> THANK YOU
.
HI.
MY NAME IS LAUREN.
I ALSO LIVE IN THE FIFTH WARD.
I AM NOT A STUDENT AND I'M NOT
EVEN FROM MICHIGAN.
I JUST ENDED UP HERE AND I
LIKED IT A LOT MORE THAN
CONTINUING TO MOVE AROUND AND
BUT WHAT I WHAT I'M FINDING
THAT I DON'T LIKE IS HOW EASILY
LANDLORDS ARE ABLE TO
MANIPULATE RENTERS BY USING THE
STUDENT POPULATION AND THE
INTERNATIONAL STUDENT
POPULATION AND KIND OF THE
TRANSIENT WORKERS THAT COME TO
THIS TOWN BECAUSE OF THE
UNIVERSITY AGAINST PEOPLE LIKE
ME WHO JUST WANT TO MAKE A HOME
HERE.
SO I DO URGE YOU ALL TO VOTE ON
CLOSING THESE LOOPHOLES,
AMENDING THESE SYSTEMS THAT YOU
ALREADY HAVE IN PLACE AND
FIGHTING MORE FOR TENANTS
RIGHTS, WHATEVER THAT MEANS SO
THAT PEOPLE LIKE ME CAN LIVE
HERE AND SAVE AND MAYBE BE ABLE
TO BUY ONE OF THESE HOUSES
SOMEDAY MAYBE GET ANOTHER DOG.
BUT AT THIS TIME, YOU KNOW, ONE
IS ENOUGH.
BUT I JUST WANT TO ALSO
REITERATE WHAT MY FELLOW PEOPLE
FROM THE ENORMOUS TENANT UNION
SAID.
>> SO THANK YOU.
THANK
HELLO.
>> I'M DAN ROSS.
I'M A TRADE STUDENT AT WCC.
I'M NOT PART OF THE UNIVERSITY
AND I'M ACTUALLY LIVING IN
YPSILANTI RIGHT NOW.
>> A MAJOR PART OF THE REASON
WHY I LIVE IN YPSILANTI IS
BECAUSE RENTING IN ANN ARBOR AS
HIGH AS THE RENTS CAN BE AND
SHE WOULD LEAVE ME FLAT BROKE
OR WORSE A LARGE PART OF THAT
IS THE VARIOUS TRICKS THAT
LANDLORDS CAN USE TO DRIVE UP
THE RENT PRICES AND THIS
AMENDMENT TO CHAPTER ONE
OF FIVE BEING DISCUSSED TODAY
WOULD WOULD HELP CLOSE OUT.
IT WOULD MEAN THAT LANDLORDS
DON'T HAVE THE OPTION TO TRY
AND PRESSURE PEOPLE STUDENTS,
YOUNG PEOPLE, NON STUDENTS,
ANYONE INTO A LEASE THAT THEY
ARE NOT READY TO RENEW YET
ADDITIONAL SHONALI, THERE WOULD
NOT BE ANY OPPORTUNITY FOR THE
EARLY BIRD SPECIAL TRICK WHICH
WAS DISCUSSED EARLIER.
I'M THIS WOULD BE A HUGE THING
AND IT WOULDN'T SOLVE THE
ENTIRE PROBLEM BUT IT WOULD
START TO FIX THE SITUATION A
LITTLE BIT AND IT WOULD MAKE IT
EASIER FOR PEOPLE WHO ARE NOT
ATTACHED TO THE UNIVERSITY
PEOPLE LIKE LAUREN WHO CAME UP
HERE BEFORE ME AND MYSELF TO
LIVE HERE BECAUSE WE TOO ARE
IMPORTANT TO THIS COMMUNITY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE I'D LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
CALLER WITH THE PHONE NUMBER
ENDING AN EIGHT THREE THREE GO
AHEAD.
HELLO MY NAME IS WILLIAM
BRANDING.
I'M A INTERIOR MILITARY AND
MEDICAL STUDENT HEALTH CARE
THAT HAPPENS A LOT MORE THAN IT
TODAY SPEAKING IN SUPPORT
OF AMENDMENT EIGHT FIVE ZERO
THREE ONE I'M TALKING ABOUT
OVER THE YEARS WITH THE
OPPORTUNITY UNION EQUALS UNION
YOU HAVE AN OUTREACH MISSION,
VERY SENSITIVE INFORMATION
LOOKING TO ME THE NEED FOR
INCREASED PROTECTION AGAIN AND
AGAIN AS I WORK WITH THE
WASHTENAW COUNTY HEALTH
DEPARTMENT AND DURING THE
RECENT COMMUNITY HEALTH
ASSESSMENT HOUSING STABILITY
ISSUE CAME UP AGAIN AND AGAIN.
>> IN FACT THE LONGEST RUNNING
TENANT ASSOCIATION IN THE TIME
THAT I KNOW OF THE SYCAMORE
ASSOCIATION IS SUPPORTED BY THE
HEALTH DEPARTMENT USED TO BE
IMPORTANT WORK BETWEEN HOUSING
AFFORDABILITY CRISIS IN
WASHINGTON COUNTY WAS PREDICTED
TEN YEARS AGO BY THE 2014
OFFICE OF COMMUNITY AND
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT REPORT ON
AFFORDABILITY AND ECONOMIC
EQUITY.
THE PROPOSED COMBINED WITH THE
STABILITY OF THE EARLY LEASING
ORDINANCE AND THE RIGHT TO
RENEW PROVIDES OUR CHANCE TO
ACTUALLY ADDRESS A SMALL PART
OF AFFORDABILITY EARLYBIRD
PRICING AS LANDLORDS CALL IT
EFFECTIVELY SIDESTEP THE SPIRIT
OF THIS RECENT LEGISLATION BY
FORCING IT TO ACCEPT HIGHER
PRICES OR A SHORT TIME SUPPORT
HOUSING AFFORDABILITY BY
SIMPLIFYING THE TIMELINE OF THE
NEW OFFERS FOR AS ONE OF THE
ORIGINAL ARCHITECTS OF THE
EARLY LEASING OR I CAN SAY THAT
I WOULD FRUSTRATED WHEN
LANDLORDS FOUND WAYS AROUND THE
LEGISLATION.
THE HOUSING ACTIVISTS THAT I
WORKED WITH, HOWEVER,
UNDERSTAND THAT THIS WILL BE AN
ONGOING PROCESS AND WE ARE
WORKING TO BUILD SUSTAINABILITY
THROUGH ORGANIZATIONS LIKE THE
AFRICAN UNION.
SO BE READY TO ADDRESS CITY
WIDE ISSUES LIKE THE EARLYBIRD
PRICING QUICKLY AND EFFECTIVELY
.
>> YOU CAN LOOK FORWARD TO
HEARING FROM US IN THE FUTURE.
THANK YOU
MAYOR.
>> I DON'T SEE ANY OTHER
CALLERS ON THE LINE WITH THEIR
HANDS UP
SEE SEE NO.
IN THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED PUBLIC HEARING NO.
TWO RESOLUTION TO APPROVE FEES
FOR THE FIRE DEPARTMENT,
AMBULANCE TRANSPORT AND LIFT
ASSISTS AND APPROPRIATE
FUNDING.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE YOU'D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
I DO NOT HAVE ANY CALLERS FOR
HEARING
SEE NO ON THIS PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED PUBLIC
HEARING NO.
THREE RESOLUTION TO APPROVE
FEES FOR THE FIRE DEPARTMENT
AMBULANCE TRANSPORT AND
APPROPRIATE FUNDING.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
>> MARY DID NOT HAVE ANY
CALLERS ON LINE FOR THIS
HEARING
.
SEE NO ONE THIS PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE REGULAR
SESSION MEETI MINUTES
OF FEBRUARY TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
MAY HAVE MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THESE MINUTES MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON SYNC BY
COUNCIL MEMBER A DENHA
DISCUSSION OF THE MINUTES ON
FABER POSED THE MINUTES ARE
APPROVED B1 ORDINANCE TO AMEND
SECTION FIVE PALMY EIGHT FIVE
THREE ZERO AND EIGHT FIFTY ONE
OF CHAPTER ONE ZERO FIVE
HOUSING CODE OF TITLE SEVEN
BUILDING REGULATIONS OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY THEN ARE MOVE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER OF DENHA
SECOND BY COUNCIL MAHASEN
DISCUSSION PLEASE BE ONE
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I SPOKE AT LENGTH ABOUT THIS AT
OUR LAST MEETING DURING FIRST
READING.
I DON'T HAVE A LOT
OF ADDITIONAL INFORMATION TO
ADD BEYOND THAT BUT I DO WANT
TO THANK THE RENTERS COMMISSION
AGAIN CHAIR FERRER WHO'S HERE
TONIGHT AND MEMBERS OF THE
COMMUNITY WHO CONTINUE TO
ADVOCATE FOR THESE CHANGES AND
CONTINUE TO UPLIFT OF THE
THINGS THAT WE STILL HAVE TO DO
AFTER THIS.
THIS IS AN IMPORTANT CHANGE
THAT WE'RE MAKING TONIGHT THAT
WILL STRENGTHEN TENANTS RIGHTS
HERE IN ANN ARBOR BUT IT'S NOT
THE END OF THAT WORK.
AND SO I JUST WANT MAKE SURE
THAT WE KEEP THAT FOCUS IN MIND
AND I ALSO REALLY JUST WANT TO
I'VE HAD CONVERSATIONS ALSO
THIS LAST BETWEEN THE LAST TWO
MEETINGS WITH THE WASHINGTON
AREA APARTMENT ASSOCIATION AND
I THINK THERE'S ALSO SOME
ACKNOWLEDGMENT THERE THAT THAT
COMMUNITY IS NOT A MONOLITH IN
IN IN THIS CONVERSATION WE HAVE
HEARD FROM LANDLORDS THERE ARE
TWO LANDLORDS ON THE RENTERS
COMMISSION WHO WORKED WITH US
ON MAKING SOME OF THESE CHANGES
AND SO I DO ENCOURAGE SOME
OF THE LANDLORD COMMUNITY TO
CONTINUE TO LEAD AND AND REALLY
PURSUE THE SAME GOALS THAT WE
ALL HAVE FOR THE CITY, WHICH IS
TO MAKE SURE THAT OUR TENANTS
HAVE STABLE AND AFFORDABLE
HOUSING AND NOT TO TRY TO TAKE
ADVANTAGE OF TENANTS.
WE KNOW THAT THAT'S NOT
EVERYONE'S GOAL AND
UNFORTUNATELY WE ARE IN IN MOST
OF THESE CASES BEING REQUIRED
TO LEGISLATE TO THE WORST
ACTORS.
AND SO I JUST THINK THIS IS AN
IMPORTANT STEP TOWARD
REESTABLISHING TENANTS RIGHTS,
ESTABLISHING THE INTENT OF THIS
LAW AND MAKING SURE THAT WE CAN
STRENGTHEN OUR ENFORCEMENT
MECHANISMS SO THAT
THAT TENANTS
ACTUALLY HAVE THE ABILITY.
AND AS WE HEARD TONIGHT
THAT
THE COURAGE REALLY TO BE ABLE
TO STAND UP FOR THEMSELVES IN
THESE SITUATIONS WITHOUT FEAR
OF RETRIBUTION.
SO THANK YOU AND I LOOK FORWARD
TO THIS PASSING COUNCIL MEMBER
BRAKE'S YEAH THANKS.
I SPOKE TO THIS LAST TIME SO I
WON'T SPEAK VERY LONG BUT I
JUST WANTED TO THANK THE FIFTH
WARD MEMBERS WHO ARE HERE
TONIGHT TO SPEAK ON THIS.
THIS THESE ORDINANCE CHANGES
ARE HERE IN PART BECAUSE THE
FIFTH WARD COMMUNITY MEMBERS
WHO REACHED OUT TO US AND
RAISED CONCERNS ABOUT HOW MUCH
THEY WERE BE PREMATURELY BEING
PRESSURED TO RENEW THEIR
LEASES.
SO SOME OF THE RENTERS THAT
THAT SPOKE OUT REACHED OUT TO
US WERE, YOU KNOW, BEING
APPROACHED JUST THREE MONTHS
AFTER THEY HAD MOVED INTO AN
APARTMENT ABOUT RENEWING THEIR
LEASE WHICH WAS ENTIRELY
CONTRARY TO WHAT OUR ORDINANCE
WAS INTENDED TO DO.
SO I'M GLAD TO SEE THAT WE'RE
STRENGTHENING CLOSING SOME
LOOPHOLES.
AS FOLKS HAVE NOTED, THERE'S A
LOT MORE TO DO AND I'M EXCITED
TO SEE THOSE THOSE CHANGES THAT
ARE GOING TO BE BROUGHT FORWARD
FROM THE RENTERS COMMISSION
EXCITED TO SUPPORT THEM BECAUSE
THEY'RE PART OF A BIG PACKAGE
AND VERY THANKFUL FOR FOR FOLKS
LIKE THE THIRD RENTER AND AND
REPRESENTATIVE BRANNIGAN'S
WHO'S GOING TO BE ADVOCATING
FOR THESE CHANGES THAT WE ALSO
NEED TO SEE AT THE STATE LEVEL
TO HELP US HAVE A FULL SET
OF TOOLS TO BE ABLE TO TO
SUPPORT AND PROTECT OUR RENTERS
HERE IN ANN ARBOR.
>> SO THANKS CARL ZIMMER ISSS I
JUST WANT TO THANK THE RENTERS
COMMISSION AND MY COLLEAGUES
FOR THEIR WORK ON THIS AND IF I
COULD BE ADDED AS A CO-SPONSOR
THAT WOULD BE GREAT.
FURTHER DISCUSSION, COUNCILMAN
.
I ALSO WANTED TO EXPRESS MY
GRATITUDE FOR PEOPLE WHO CAME
AND SPOKE IN SUPPORT OF THIS,
ESPECIALLY THE POINTS THAT
PEOPLE MADE ABOUT STABILITY
REALLY RESONATED WITH ME.
I GREW UP IN A RENTING
HOUSEHOLD AND HAD THE GOOD
FORTUNE TO NOT LIVE IN A
COMMUNITY THAT HAD THIS
TREMENDOUS NOT LIVE IN A
COMMUNITY THAT HAD THESE
TREMENDOUS PRESSURES AND I CAN
IMAGINE BEING AFRAID TO HAVE TO
MOVE YOUR KIDS EVERY YEAR AND
CHANGE SCHOOLS AND THE
INABILITY TO BUILD COMMUNITY
THAT'S JUST SO IMPORTANT FOR
HAVING A GOOD EXPERIENCE
OF LIVING HERE.
SO THANK YOU FOR BRINGING THOSE
POINTS UP AND THANK YOU TO THE
PEOPLE WHO WORKED SO HARD ON
THIS VERY MUCH IN SUPPORT OF IT
FOR THE DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MEMBER DENHA SORRY I'M COMING
BACK BECAUSE I REALIZE I
THANKED INDIVIDUALS BUT I ALSO
WANT TO THANK AN ORGANIZATION
THAT NO TENANTS UNION FOR THEIR
ADVOCACY IN THE COMMUNITY.
THEY HAVE BEEN REALLY
INSTRUMENTAL IN ORGANIZING SOME
TENANTS IN SOME OF THE WORST
PROPERTIES WHERE WHERE THESE
UNFORTUNATE CIRCUMSTANCES ARE
OCCURRING AND HAVE BEEN VISIBLE
AND PRESENT IN A LOT OF THE
DISCUSSIONS AROUND THIS.
AND SO I WANT TO THANK THEM AS
WELL.
>> I ALSO JUST SAW THEM
PARTICIPATE IN A PANEL ON THIS
TOPIC AND AFFORDABLE HOUSING
WITH COUNCIL MEMBER HARRIS THIS
WEEKEND AND SO I APPRECIATE
THEIR CONTINUED ADVOCACY AND
WORK WITH US TO SOLVE SOME
OF THESE PROBLEMS.
>> COUNCIL TOM WHEN I CAMPAIGN
IN 2020 AND KNOCKED ON DOORS
WHEN THE SURPRISING REACTIONS I
HAD FROM RESIDENTS WHO WERE
UNAWARE OF THE CHALLENGES THAT
OUR RENTERS FACE WAS MAYBE
FOLKS NEED TO WORK HARDER IN
ORDER TO LIVE IN ANN ARBOR.
AND I WAS REALLY TAKEN ABACK BY
THAT ANALYSIS THAT SOMEHOW THE
FOLKS WHO WERE HERE FIRST
WORKED HARDER AND THAT'S THAT'S
WHAT IT TAKES TO LIVE IN ANN
ARBOR AND WE HAD TO PUSH FOLKS
TO REFEED THE IDEA THAT OUR
NEIGHBORS WORK VERY, VERY HARD
TOO HARD FOR SO MUCH LESS AND
THAT THEY ARE OUR NEIGHBORS.
>> AND I I APPRECIATE THAT
REMINDER AND I HOPE THAT WHEN
YOU COME HERE AND SPEAK TO
ELECTED WHO ARE ALREADY IN
FAVOR OF JUST HOUSING, EQUAL
HOUSING, HOUSING ACCESS THAT
MAYBE YOU KNOW, YOU CAN ALSO
SPEAK TO YOUR NEIGHBORS WHO ARE
SINGLE FAMILY HOME OR
HOMEOWNERS.
I THINK WHAT 70 PERCENT OF THE
CITY IS ON SINGLE FAMILY HOMES
AND THAT YOU ARE THE MAJORITY.
SO I THANK YOU FOR THAT
REMINDER HERE.
I WISH YOU LUCK JOINING US AND
REMINDING FELLOW NEIGHBORS
BEYOND THE CHAMBERS THAT YOU
ARE HERE.
>> YOU WORK VERY HARD TO BE
HERE AND WE SHOULD FIND A WAY
TO MAKE SURE THAT YOU CAN STAY
HERE AS LONG AS YOU WANT TO BE
HERE.
>> COUNCILMAN.
>> YOU KNOW, I JUST ALSO WANT
TO EXPRESS MY THANKS TO
CO-SPONSORS OF THIS AS WELL AS
THE YOU KNOW, ALL OF YOU FOR
COMING OUT AND YOUR ACTIVISM.
YOU KNOW, I THINK AS OUR CITY
BECOMES MORE AND MORE
ECONOMICALLY SEGREGATED, THIS
IS SO ESSENTIAL FOR US TO
REALLY MAKE SURE THAT THEY'RE
STRONG TENANT PROTECTIONS.
SO YEAH, YOU KNOW, I THINK
HELPING TO HAVE HOUSING FOR
SOME OF OUR WORKERS THAT WORK
AT OUR BUSINESSES IS SO
IMPORTANT.
HUGE COMMUTER COMMUNITY AND IT
MAKES IT REALLY DIFFICULT FOR
MANY BUSINESSES I'VE BEEN
HEARING.
>> SO I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO BE
ADDED AS A CO-SPONSOR FURTHER
DISCUSSION
I WOULD LIKE TO BUT
OF COURSE THANK THE THINK THAT
THE GROWING BODY OF CO-SPONSORS
AND FOLKS WHO BROUGHT FORWARD
THIS RESOLUTION THINK THE
ENERGY COMMISSION FOR THEIR
HARD WORK JA'FAR THINK THE
TENANTS UNION TOO FOR THEIR
ADVOCACY ON THIS ISSUES AND ALL
OTHER FOLKS WHO HAVE MADE IT
PART OF THEIR MISSION TO
HIGHLIGHT WHAT IS IN OUR
COMMUNITY A AN ASYMMETRY AND
THAT IS THE POWER DIFFERENTIAL
BETWEEN LANDLORDS AND TENANTS
OVER HALF OF OF ANN ARBOR
RESIDENTS ARE INDEED RENTERS
AND THEY ARE AT A STRUCTURAL
DISADVANTAGE WHEN IT COMES TO
SOME OF THEIR MOST SOME ASPECT
OF THEIR LIVES WHICH IS
FOUNDATIONAL TO SO MANY THINGS
AND THAT IS TO SAY THEIR
HOUSING.
WE IN ANN ARBOR HAVE A HOUSING
CRISIS.
WE ARE LOOKING AT IT TO HELP
IMPROVE THE SUPPLY AT ALL
INCOME LEVELS TO EXPAND
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
THIS IS SUPPORTED BY OUR
COMMUNITY.
WE HAVE A STRONG AND AND
HOPEFULLY STRENGTHENING SET
OF COOPERATIVES HERE IN OUR
TOWN WHO WE WANT TO DO
EVERYTHING WE CAN TO TO ASSIST
AND IMPROVE AND EXPAND AND THEN
TO OF COURSE WE HAVE WE HAVE
OUR RENTERS.
WE KNOW THAT WE AS A BODY HAVE
THE ABILITY TO DO SOME THINGS
IN ORDER TO IMPROVE THEIR LIVES
A LOT HERE IN THE CITY AND
WE'RE I THINK DELIGHTED TO HAVE
TAKEN THAT STEP, DELIGHTED TO
LISTEN TO THE THE RENTAL
COMMISSION AND OTHERS WHO
UNDERSTAND BEST THOSE DYNAMICS
AND THOSE NEEDS.
AND I'M JUST GLAD THAT THAT
THIS THAT THIS GOVERNMENT IS IS
TAKING REAL AND ACTIVE STEPS
AND EAGER TO DO MORE TO FURTHER
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED.
>> IT IS APPROVED C1 AN
ORDINANCE TO AMEND SECTION
PALMY CHAPTER 40 TO OPEN SPACE
AND PARKLAND PRESERVATION
OF TITLE THREE OF THE CODE OF
THE CITY.
EVEN ARBER MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DENHA SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER LOTS AND
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C ONE
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA I
UNDERSTAND THAT SOME QUESTIONS
WERE SUBMITTED LATE AND MAY NOT
HAVE BEEN IN TIME FOR E F
INTRODUCTION BUT I HAVE SPOKEN
WITH OUR GREENBELT STAFF AND I
THINK THEY'RE PREPARED TO TO
INTRODUCE THIS AND SO I AM
GOING TO ASK THEM IF THEY WOULD
LIKE TO SAY ANYTHING
.
>> MAYOR, WE HAVE ROSIE
DONALSON AND REMI LONG ON ZOM
AND THOSE MEMBERS YES WE CAN.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA INVITING
AN INTRODUCTION TO THE PROPOSED
CHANGES TO CHAPTER TWO OF THE
CITY CODE .
MY NAME IS REMON AND I SERVE AS
A PARKS AND RECREATION
DEPARTMENT WHERE I OVERSEE A
FEW PARKS PROGRAMS ONE OF WHICH
IS THE CITY'S OPEN SPACE AND
PARKLAND PRESERVATION PROGRAM
COMMONLY REFERRED TO AS THE
GREENBELT.
SO I'M HAPPY TO GIVE A LITTLE
BACKGROUND ON THESE EDITS THAT
ARE BEFORE YOU TODAY.
>> I'LL START BY SAYING THAT
THE DRIVING FORCE BEHIND THESE
PROPOSED PROPOSED ORDINANCE
REVISIONS IS LONG STANDING
DISCUSSION AROUND THE ORDINANCE
CHANGES IS SOMETHING THAT IS
TAKING PLACE BACK WHEN I JOINED
THE PROGRAM IN 2013 AND HAD
ALREADY BEEN AN ACTIVE
CONVERSATION AMONG MY
PREDECESSORS, FORMER GREENBELT
PROGRAM MANAGERS SO MANY OF THE
IMPROVEMENTS AND
RECOMMENDATIONS YOU SEE
CAPTURED IN THE RED LINE AT
DOCUMENT AND SUMMARIZED IN THE
MEMO TO YOU ALL ARE DRAWN UP
FROM YOUR OF STAFF
CONVERSATIONS ABOUT THE
ORDINANCE PROVISIONS AS WELL.
>> MANY OF THE CHANGES STEMMED
FROM CHANGES IN BEST PRACTICES
THAT HAVE DEVELOPED WITHIN THE
LAND CONSERVATION INDUSTRY OVER
THE PAST TWENTY YEARS WHICH ARE
MANY OF THE LESSONS THAT OUR
OWN PROGRAM HAS LEARNED
DIRECTLY IN OUR OWN
ACQUISITIONS OVER THE PAST
TWENTY YEARS AS WE GREW FROM A
PROGRAM IN 2003 WITH ZERO ACRES
PROTECTED LAND TO NOW IN 2024
7600 ACRES PERMANENTLY
PROTECTED LAND SURROUNDING THE
CITY.
>> SO BECAUSE THE GREENBELT
STRIVES TO ALIGN ITS OPERATIONS
WITH MY INTEREST ALLIANCE BEST
PRACTICES AND OUR OWN PROGRAM
ALSO SEEKS TO INNOVATE AT THE
LOCAL AND STATE LEVELS.
IT'S IMPORTANT THAT THE
ORDINANCE REFLECTS THE
PROGRAM'S NEEDS AND PROVIDES
THE ABILITY TO CONTINUE TO
INNOVATE WITHIN THE LAND
CONSERVATION INDUSTRY HERE IN
OUR COMMUNITY AND AT A STATE
LEVEL ALL WHILE MEETING THOSE
BEST PRACTICES.
>> I SHOULD ALSO MENTION THAT
CHANGES LIKE THE ONES YOU SEE
OR I'D SAY OVERHAULS OF SIMILAR
ORDINANCES IN OTHER
MUNICIPALITIES
WITHIN THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN ARE UNCOMMON.
OTHER MUNICIPALITIES HAVE
UNDERTAKEN SIMILARLY
SIGNIFICANT UPDATES.
DEPARTMENT LAND CONSERVATION
INDUSTRY IS AN EXCEPTIONALLY
ALL BUT THERE ARE OTHER
MUNICIPALITIES THAT HAVE HAD
PROGRAMS IN EXISTENCE FOR 20 TO
30 YEARS AND THEY LOOKED AT
THEIR ORIGINAL ORDINANCE
LANGUAGE AND MADE SIGNIFICANT
CHANGES TO ALIGN THEIR
OPERATIONS WITH THE THE NEEDED
UPDATES TO SOME OF THE LANGUAGE
THEY'RE MEETING SOME FUNDING
REQUIREMENTS AND MORE SO TO
KEEP IT SHORT, THE CHANGES
REFLECT THE MATURATION OF THE
CITY'S GREENBELT PROGRAM, ITS
ROBUST PORTFOLIO OF EXISTING
WORK.
THEY WERE REFLECTING THE NEEDS
OF THE HIGHLY PRODUCTIVE
PROGRAM THAT'S CONSISTENTLY
INNOVATING AND REFLECT THE
NEEDS OF A PROGRAM THAT HAS TO
MANAGE A LARGE PORTFOLIO
OF PERPETUAL LEGAL OBLIGATIONS
INTO THE FUTURE.
>> SO THIS WAS BY ALL MEANS A
SLOW INTENTIONAL YEARS LONG
PROCESS WHERE IT HAS ALL
ACCUMULATED INTO ONE LARGE SET
OF PROPOSED REVISIONS FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION TO MEET THE
CURRENT AND FUTURE NEEDS OF THE
GREENBELT PROGRAM, I'M HAPPY TO
SPEAK TO ANY SPECIFICS BEST I
CAN IF ANY QUESTIONS.
>> THANK YOU.
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MEMBER BREAKS I JUST WANT TO
SAY THANK YOU FOR PROVIDING
THAT BACKGROUND.
>> I THINK THAT'S REALLY
HELPFUL.
>> THERE'S THIS ORDINANCE
CHANGES LENGTHY AND SO IT'S
IT'S CHALLENGING TO INTERPRET
EVERYTHING THAT'S IN THERE.
I APPRECIATE THE MEMO THAT
HIGHLIGHTS ALL OF THE THE SORT
OF MAJOR ITEMS THAT ARE
CHANGING IN IT.
A FEW QUESTIONS THAT I HAVE
SPECIFICALLY ARE AROUND THE
ADMINISTRATIVE CAP WHICH IS
REMOVING THE SIX PERCENT
ADMINISTRATIVE CAP WHICH I
UNDERSTAND THE MEMO NOTES THAT
THE CAP DOES NOT EXIST ANY
OTHER LOCAL LAND CONSERVATION
PROGRAMS IN WASHINGTON COUNTY.
BUT I WAS JUST CURIOUS IF YOU
COULD SPEAK A LITTLE BIT MORE
TO ANY OTHER INVESTIGATIONS
THAT YOU'VE DONE AROUND THE
STATE OR COUNTRY TO TO
UNDERSTAND KIND OF WHAT
BENCHMARKING WAS DONE BECAUSE
IN ENTIRELY REMOVING IT IS
OBVIOUSLY A BIG, BIG CHANGE.
>> YEAH, IT'S A GREAT QUESTION.
APPRECIATE IT SO I CAN ANSWER
THAT.
>> YES.
IT DOES NOT EXIST IN ANY OF OUR
LOCAL PROGRAMS MUNICIPAL
PROGRAMS THAT WE PARTNER WITH
REGULARLY.
IT ALSO IS NOT A FEATURE OF ANY
ORDINANCE IN THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN FOR ANY OF THE
OTHER MUNICIPAL PROGRAMS FUNDED
IN THE STATE, MANY OF WHICH
COME FROM THE GREATER DIVERSITY
AREA AS WELL.
SO NONE OF THOSE PROGRAMS HAVE
ADMINISTRATIVE CAPS EITHER.
>> I CONFIRMED THAT WITH THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR PART OF THE
LAKES WHICH IS THE STATE
ASSOCIATION OF LAND TRUSTS IN
MICHIGAN.
>> THEIR EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
ALSO WANTED TO NOTE THAT REALLY
IN THE CONSERVATION INDUSTRY
YOU START TO SEE FUNDING CAPS
IMPLEMENTED NOT AT THE SCALE AT
WHICH WE'RE GENERATING REVENUE.
>> IT COMES MORE AT THE FEDERAL
LEVEL LIKE SUCH AS LAND AND
WATER CONSERVATION FUND OR NOKO
FUNDS.
THOSE ARE WHEN YOU START TO SEE
A 10 PERCENT ADMINISTRATIVE CAP
FOR HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS LAND
WATER CONSERVATION FUNDS NINE
HUNDRED MILLION DOLLARS A YEAR
SO THAT'S WHEN THOSE
ADMINISTRATIVE CAPS COME IN.
BUT DENHA THAT WE ALL OPERATE
ON FOR THE MUNICIPAL PROGRAMS
WITHIN THE STATE OF MICHIGAN IS
THAT WE HAVE A HIGH DEGREE
OF VARIABILITY IN OUR PROGRAMS.
SUDDENLY PROJECTS BECOME
AVAILABLE.
>> WE NEED TO ACT AND THE
VARIABILITY OF POTENTIAL
CONSERVATION EASEMENT
VIOLATIONS AND NEVER KNOWING
WHEN THOSE ARE COMING THAT HIGH
DEGREE OF VARIABILITY
VARIABILITY HAS ALWAYS
DISSUADED COMMUNITIES FROM
IMPLEMENTING AND ADMINISTRATIVE
CAP BECAUSE THEY WANT TO HAVE
THE FUNDS AVAILABLE TO MEET THE
NEEDS OF THE PROGRAM WHENEVER
THEY ARISE.
>> GREAT THANKS.
AND THEN FINALLY THIS IS MORE
INFORMATIONAL IN REGARDS TO THE
SCORING CRITERIA.
THE MEMO NOTES THAT THE
PROPOSED CHANGES SHIFT THE
DEVELOPMENT OF THE SCORING
CRITERIA FULLY TO THE GREENBELT
ADVISORY COMMISSION WHICH MAKES
SENSE TO ME.
I'M JUST AND THAT'S BEEN THAT
THERE'S A NEED TO DO THAT IN
TERMS OF BETTER ALIGNING THOSE
POTENTIALLY THREE TO ZERO GOALS
AND OTHER CITY CITY GOALS.
THAT MAKES SENSE.
JUST ONE OF THE PIECES THAT
I'VE BEEN THINKING ABOUT IN
TERMS OF ACQUISITION
OF PROPERTIES WITHIN THE CITY
IS THAT I WOULD PERSONALLY LIKE
TO SHIFTING MORE TOWARDS
ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY
THINKING ABOUT THE DEVELOPMENT
OF LINEAR PARK SYSTEMS AND I'M
CURIOUS HOW THIS HOW THE
GREENBELT YOU KNOW, IF THAT IF
THAT IS IN ALIGNMENT WITH THE
MILLAGE AND ANY CONVERSATIONS
THAT HAVE HAPPENED WITHIN THE
COMMISSION TO DATE OR IF THAT
IS AT ANOTHER GREAT QUESTION.
SO WHAT THE PROPOSED CHANGES DO
IS ALIGN THE DEVELOPMENT
OF SCORING SYSTEMS WITH THE
SAME SET OF COLLABORATIONS
BETWEEN THE COMMISSION AND
STAFF THAT EXIST OVER IN THE
PARKS ADVISORY COMMISSION SIDE
OF THINGS.
SO IF YOU'RE NOT AWARE THE OPEN
SPACE IN PARKLAND PRESERVATION
MULTITRACKING IS DIVIDED ONE
THIRD TWO THIRDS ONE THIRD
OF THE REVENUE GOING TO THE
PARKLAND ACQUISITION FUNCTION
OF THE MILITARY AND THEN TWO
THIRDS TO THE GREENBELT LAND
ACQUISITION FUNCTIONS OF THE
MILLAGE WITH THE GREENBELT
ADVISORY COMMISSION OVERSEEING
THE TWO THIRDS USE AND THE
PARKS ADVISORY COMMISSION
MAKING RECOMMENDATIONS TO
COUNCIL ON THE ONE THIRD IS
DEDICATED TO PARKLAND
ACQUISITION.
>> THE OWNERS DID NOT SPECIFY
PARKLAND ACQUISITION CRITERIA
RATHER IT DOES NOT MEAN THAT AT
ALL AND LEAVES IT TO THE PARKS
ADVISORY COMMISSION TO DEVELOP
THAT CRITERIA AND THE SCORING
SYSTEMS BY WHICH PROPERTIES ARE
EVALUATED.
>> SO THAT WAY THE ORDINANCE
LEAVES OPEN ANYTHING TO
CONSIDERATION AND IT GOES
THROUGH THAT PROCESS AND SO THE
GREENBELT SIDE OF THINGS WOULD
BECOME ALIGNED WITH THAT SAME
PROCESS.
IT WAS ALWAYS REVIEWED BY THE
GREENBELT ADVISORY COMMISSION
BUT THE SCORING CRITERIA ITSELF
WAS EMBEDDED IN THE ORDINANCE
AND THEREFORE WAS VERY
DIFFICULT TO UPDATE AND BRING
IN TO MODERN TIMES WITH NEW AND
EMERGING CRITERIA SUCH AS WATER
QUALITY AND
CARBON SEQUESTRATION.
>> SO IT DID NOT EXCLUDE
ANYTHING FROM CONSIDERATION.
IT JUST ALIGNS AND SAY AS OPEN
A DOOR AS THE PARKS ADVISORY
COMMISSION SCORING SYSTEM TAKES
IT.
>> IT MAKES THAT SIMILARLY
AVAILABLE TO THE GREENBELT
SIDE.
>> THAT MAKES SENSE.
THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON.
>> JUST A COUPLE OTHER POINTS.
UH, ABOUT THE CHANGES HERE.
>> SO ONE PORTION YOU KNOW IS
THE BOUNDARY CHANGE TO INCLUDE
THE HURON RIVER WATERSHED BUT
THOSE PORTIONS CONTAINED IN
WASHTENAW COUNTY BECAUSE YOU
KNOW, OUR CITY HAS AN INTEREST
IN THE THE THE CLEAN WATER AND
THE WATER THAT SERVES THE HURON
RIVER THAT WE ALL USE FOR SO
MANY REASONS.
BUT THE IPSI TOWNSHIP
ADDITIONALLY WAS LEFT OUT
ORIGINALLY DUE TO ITS URBAN
CHARACTER.
BUT AFTER CONVERSATION WITH
TOWNSHIP RESIDENTS AND
OFFICIALS, STAFF IS HOPEFUL
THAT THERE IS MORE OPPORTUNITY
IN THAT AREA FOR THE BUY
PROTECT SELL PROGRAM WHICH HAS
THE GOAL OF SUPPORTING THEM
INSECURE FARMERS AND PRESERVING
LOCAL FARMLAND COUNCIL HAS
APPROVED TO BUY, PROTECT SELL
PROPERTIES AND I LOOK FORWARD
TO THIS PROGRAM GROWING AND
CONTINUING TO HELP MORE FOOD BE
FARMED CLOSE TO ANN ARBOR
RESIDENTS.
>> YOU KNOW I HOPE MY COUNCIL
MEMBERS UNDERSTAND THAT THIS
WAS APPROVED UNANIMOUSLY BY PAC
AND ALSO SEPARATELY APPROVED
UNANIMOUSLY BY THE GREENBELT
ADVISORY COMMISSION AND THIS IS
GOING TO BE THE THIRD TIME THIS
ORDINANCE HAS BEEN REVISED.
>> THANKS, COUNCILOR BRACKMAN.
I WONDERED IF I COULD ASK A
FOLLOW UP QUESTION REGARDING
THE ADMINISTRATIVE CAP.
SO WHEN IT'S BEEN THE CASE THAT
WE'VE WON, THE ADMINISTRATIVE
BURDEN HAS BEEN HIGHER THAN THE
CAP ALLOWS.
WHAT HAPPENS RIGHT NOW?
DOES IT COME OUT OF PARK
FUNDING?
>> DOES IT NOT GET DONE OR HOW
IS THAT MANAGED IN THE CURRENT
ORDINANCE?
>> SO ONE IS CURRENTLY SAYS THE
THE MAKES NO MORE THAN SIX
PERCENT OF MILITARY REVENUE
OVER THE LIFE OF THE MILLAGE
CAN EXCEED.
>> SO YOU WERE ABLE TO EXCEED
THE SIX PERCENT CAP AS LONG AS
ON AVERAGE WE'RE STAYING UNDER
IT OVER THAT THREE YEARS.
>> SO WITH THAT WE'VE HAD
VARIABILITY VERY LOW.
I DON'T HAVE THE NUMBERS
OFFHAND BUT I WANT TO IS LOCALS
SAY THREE AND A HALF PERCENT AS
HIGH AS TWELVE AND A HALF
PERCENT AND SO AS LONG AS WE'RE
AVERAGING TO KEEP IT UNDER A
SIX, WE'RE STAYING WITHIN THE
CURRENT ORDINANCE GUIDELINES.
>> GOT IT.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON, ONE MORE
PIECE ON MR LONG.
I HOPE YOU CAN CORRECT ME OR
EXPAND UPON WHAT I'M SAYING BUT
THERE IS ONE CHANGE YOU'RE
MAKING IS THE FIFTY YEAR THE
PROVISIONS FOR PEOPLE TO
ESSENTIALLY BUY BACK THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS ON THESE
PORTIONS THAT HAVE BEEN DONATED
THAT HAVE BEEN ADDED TO THE
GREENBELT.
BUT DURING THE FIRST TWENTY
YEARS WE HAVEN'T SEEN ANYBODY
USE THAT FIFTY YEAR I HAVEN'T
ANYBODY USED THE OPTION TO
REQUIRE AND ALSO WE'VE BEEN
ACQUIRING PROPERTIES IN
PERPETUITY RATHER THAN USING A
FIFTY YEAR TERM.
>> SO THOSE PROPORTIONS ARE
GOING ALSO BECAUSE THEY WERE
PERHAPS CREATED TO BE IN LINE
WITH STATE STATUTES AT THE TIME
AND NOW WE'RE SEEING THOSE
AREN'T AS RELEVANT AS THAT KIND
OF CLARIFY WHEN PEOPLE ARE
ASKING ABOUT THE POSSIBILITY
THE PORTIONS THAT WERE INCLUDED
ABOUT REACQUIRED REACQUISITION
I GUESS ARE WE?
>> WELL, IT'S A VERY
COMPLICATED SUBJECT.
>> COUNCILOR WATSON, I THINK
YOU JUST DID AN EXCELLENT JOB
OF SUMMARIZING IT.
BUT EFFECTIVELY THE LET'S CALL
THEM FOR LACK OF A BETTER TERM
BUY BACK BUY BACK PROVISIONS
THAT EXIST WITHIN THE GREENBELT
ORDINANCE EXIST SO THAT WE CAN
QUALIFY FOR CERTAIN FUNDING.
>> IT IS A REQUIREMENT OF THAT
FUNDING SOURCE AT THE STATE
LEVEL THAT THAT LANGUAGE BEING
INCLUDED.
HOWEVER, THE LEGAL AGREEMENTS
THAT WE'RE CONSTRUCTING AS A
CITY WITH OUR PARTNERS AND MANY
TIMES WITH MULTIPLE FUNDING
SOURCES ON THE TABLE
OF PERPETUAL CONSERVATION
EASEMENT AGREEMENTS THAT CANNOT
BE UNDONE IN THAT WAY A BUYBACK
IT IS NOT A TERM AGREEMENT.
>> IT IS A PERPETUAL LEGAL
AGREEMENT.
SO WHILE IT IS A REQUIREMENT
OF THAT STATE FUNDING SOURCE,
IT DOES NOT APPLY OR COULD NOT
BE APPLICABLE TO THE PORTFOLIO
OF WORK THAT WE'VE DONE AS A
MUNICIPALITY TO DEDUCT.
THANK YOU MAKAU.
I JUST WANTED TO MENTION THAT
IF THERE ARE ANY QUESTIONS
ABOUT LEGALLY HOW THIS WORKS,
MR FROST IS ALSO AVAILABLE.
>> THANK FURTHER DISCUSSION
COUNCILOR RACKMAN FOR
OF QUESTIONS.
>> UM WE RECEIVED AN EMAIL
TODAY AND I WENT AND LOOKED I'M
HOPING YOU CAN CLARIFY THAT IN
SECTION THREE POINT SIXTY TWO
IT TALKS ABOUT EXTRACT OR OTHER
PURPOSES THAT'S UNDER A
DEFINITION.
SO THE DEFINITION REVISION AND
THE COMMUNICATION WE GOT FEARS
THAT THIS MEANS THAT WE'RE
OPENING THE DOOR FOR GRAVEL OR
SAND MINING OPERATIONS.
>> CAN YOU JUST PLEASE CLARIFY
THAT POINT IF YOU COULD POINT
ME TO THE SPECIFIC SUBSECTION
BE HELPFUL FOR PAGE NUMBER
EIGHT PAGE NUMBERS ON PAGE
THREE OF TWENTY TWO.
IF YOU DO A CONTROL SEARCH IT
JUST SHOWS UP.
>> IT'S ONE PLACE DEVELOPMENT
RIGHTS NUMBER EIGHT THREE POINT
SIX TO
AS IT IS
RAMSAR AREAS
TRANSMISSION AND THIS QUESTION
IS ABOVE DEFINITION
OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS BEING
CHANGED.
>> YES.
>> YEAH.
SO THAT DEFINITION IS TAKEN
FROM A STATE STATUTE BY
DEVELOPING RIGHTS ARE A VERY
PARTICULAR METHOD OF ACQUIRING
PROPERTY RIGHTS THAT WE DO NOT
USE.
WE USE CONTRABASS SO THOSE
DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS DEFINITIONS
NEED TO ALIGN WITH THE STATE
STATUTE IN ORDER TO BE ALLOWED
TO HAPPEN AGAIN.
WE HAVEN'T USED THAT BUT WE
WANTED TO HAVE THE OPTION TO
USE IT JUST IN CASE THE STATE
STARTED USING IT AND PERHAPS
FUNDING IT.
>> SO WE NEED TO HAVE AN
ORDINANCE ON THE BOOKS IN ORDER
TO IMPLEMENT THAT WHICH IS THE
LEGAL TIE DIRECTLY BACK TO WHAT
COUNCILMAN COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON HAD JUST BROUGHT UP IN
TERMS OF THE BUY BACK PROVISION
AND THAT'S WHY THIS DEFINITION
RIGHTS IS INCLUDED.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
IN FAVOR POSED IT IS APPROVED
DC ONE RESOLUTION TO APPOINT
QANDAHAR TO THE ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION BOARD
AS A NON RESIDENT HEKTOR MOVE
BY COUNCILOR SECONDED BY
COUNCILOR CORNELL DISCUSSION DC
ONE COUNCIL MEMBER SONG MR
DEVALL HAS SERVED WITH ME ON
THE ANN ARBOR AREA COMMUNITY
FOUNDATION'S BOARD AND IS
ACTIVE IN ANN ARBOR AND IPSI
CHAMBER.
HE'S A WELL RESPECTED LEADER
WHO DOES A LOT FOR THE ENTIRE
AREA AND THE ENTIRETY.
UM I'M REALLY GLAD THAT HE'S
COMMITTING MORE TIME TO ITS
BETTERMENT SO THANK YOU FOR
FURTHER DISCUSSION.
>> COUNCILOR MUKONO.
I HAVE THE PLEASURE OF SERVING
ON THE DESTINATION ANN HARBOR
BOARD WITH MR DUVAL AND HE IS A
SMALL BUSINESS OWNER.
IT'S NOT VERY SMALL ANYMORE
BECAUSE A BUSINESS OWNER IN
TOWN AND I THINK TO HIS CREDIT
IT'S NOT A SMALL BUSINESS
ANYMORE BUT HE DOES KNOW THIS
AREA VERY WELL.
I THINK HE'S VERY MUCH IN TUNE
WITH THE COMMUNITY AND THE
BUSINESS COMMUNITY AS WELL AND
I THINK IT'S A MUCH NEEDED
VOICE ON THIS GROUP.
SO I'M REALLY EXCITED TO SEE
HIM TAKE THIS AND ECHO COUNCIL
MEMBERS.
THANKS APPRECIATION FOR OUR
GOOD LUCK AND HAVING HIM WORK
WITH US ON THIS INITIATIVE.
>> COUNCILOR MARIA, I'M JUST
GOING TO SIMPLY ADD TO HIS
PRAISES HERE.
I FIRST MET SHAUN DUVALL WHEN I
WAS SERVING ON THE COUNTY BOARD
OF COMMISSIONERS AND HE WAS ON
THE MICHIGAN WORKS BOARD I
BELIEVE AND I WAS SERVING AS
THE LIAISON TO THAT BOARD AND
GOT TO KNOW HIS IS A VAST
AMOUNT OF EXPERIENCE AT EVEN AT
THAT TIME THAT WAS IN TWENTY
SIXTEEN IN REGARDS TO LOCAL
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.
AND SO THE I THINK THE ADC WILL
BE WELL SERVED PARTICULARLY
CONSIDERING THE FACT THAT THE
ADC IS LOOKING TO AND IS
EXPANDING ITS PURVIEW AND
GETTING MORE INTO THE AREA
OF ADVISING THE CITY ON
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ISSUES.
>> UM I WILL ALSO JUST SAY THAT
CHAS DUVALLE TOOK IN MY DOG
WHEN I WHEN I DEVELOPED LATE IN
LIFE DOG ALLERGY SO I'M FOREVER
IN HIS DEBT.
>> I WILL BE VOTING CHIP
ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR OPPOSED IT IS
APPROVING OF HAVING COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT ON THUS
SATISFYING THE SEVEN VOTE
REQUIREMENT.
I ALL VOTING IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE.
I DON'T THINK THAT ALL VOTING
IN THE AFFIRMATIVE IN DC TO
MOTION TO RECONSIDER THE
FEBRUARY TWENTY TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR VOTE THAT DEFEATED THE
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE A GOLF
CART LEASE AND APPROPRIATE
FUNDS FOR THE PURCHASE OF LONG
MOWERS MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF DC TWO.
>> THERE'S A QUESTION I BELIEVE
FIRST F
O COUNCILOR DENHA O I
THINK WE DO I'M YES.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON THAT
ON FAVORITE POSED IT'S PROVED
TO BE TO PUT IT BACK.
>> YEAH YEAH.
AND NOW A RESOLUTION TO PROVE A
GOLF COURSE LEASE AND
APPROPRIATE FUNDS FOR THE
PURCHASE OF LAWN MOWERS MOVED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA SECOND
BY COUNCIL WATSON DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF DC TWO NOW THERE'S A
STAFF INTRODUCTION.
>> I'M NEW AT THIS.
I APPRECIATE EVERYBODY'S
APPEARANCE AND YES, THANK YOU
MRS IN REGARDS TO TONIGHT'S
ITEM MY NAME IS DEREK PART
OF THE CITY'S COMMUNITY
SERVICES ADVISORY.
I HAVE ALONG WITH ME JOCELYN
WHO IS THE MANAGER OF PARKS
RECREATION AND ONE OF OUR
DEPUTY DIRECTORS FOR THE
SPECIFIC QUESTIONS.
I AM THE FIRST ONE IS ARE THESE
VEHICLES SUBJECT TO GREENSTREET
REVIEW AND IF YES, WHY WASN'T
THIS LEASE I CAN'T SPEAK FOR
ALL THESE PEOPLE FROM THERE AND
THEIR RESPONSE OR THEIR
REQUIREMENTS AS FAR AS THE
GREEN FLEET OF COURSE LEASES
HAVE NEVER BEEN PART OF THE
CITY'S FLEET OPERATION.
THEY'RE NOT MANAGED BY
DEPRECIATED THROUGH OR
MAINTAINED BY FLEETS OR OWNED
BY IT'S ALWAYS BEEN A SEPARATE
ENTITY THROUGH PARKS AND
RECREATION I SHOULD SAY AT
LEAST SINCE I'VE BEEN HERE OVER
THE LAST TEN YEARS AND
CERTAINLY OVER THE LAST WEEK OR
SO IT HAS HAPPENED PART OF THE
NORMAL PROCESS FOR THESE TO GO
THROUGH THAT PROCESS IT IS
CERTAINLY SOMETHING WE'VE BEEN
TALKING ABOUT NOW FORWARD I
WOULD IMAGINE MOST LIKELY AS
WELL.
BUT PREVIOUSLY IT HAS NOW
QUESTIONED IS THE STAFF AMONG
THOSE THAT CALL FOR REVENUE
WITH CARDS IS EXPECTED TO BE AN
EIGHT POINT NINETY NINE MILLION
IN 2024 WORK ASIDE FROM GOLF
COURSE OPERATIONS INCLUSIVE
STAFF, ET CETERA.
HOW MUCH OF THAT REVENUE IS
EXPECTED TO GO INTO THE PARK
SYSTEM OUTSIDE OF THE GOLF
COURSES THERE'S A DESIRE TO
STAY WITHIN GOLF COURSES BEING
CLOSE IF GAS POWERED CARTS OR A
GOLF GOLF CART LEASES WERE IN
PLACE WITH THE SCHOOL OR NEXT
YOU KNOW THE REVENUE FROM GOLF
COURSES BARELY IF IT'S AT ALL
COVERS OPERATIONS.
WE'RE USUALLY AT A BREAK EVEN
THERE'S THREE FACILITIES IN
PARKS THAT ACTUALLY MAKE MONEY
OUT ON AN ANNUAL BASIS.
THAT'S THE LIBRARIES THAT ARE
GOING UP AND THE LESLI GOLF
COURSE DOES GENERATE REVENUE
ABOVE OPERATIONS HERE ON HILLS
WHICH IS BY DESIGN MEANT TO BE
MORE OF A FAMILY ORIENTED
COURSE.
WE DON'T SERVE ALCOHOL UP HERE
ON THE FEES AND THE RATES ARE
KEPT LOWER INTENTIONALLY TO BE
A MORE INCLUSIVE FAMILY
ORIENTED OPERATION.
WE DO LOSE MONEY AT YEAR END
BETWEEN THE TWO GOLF COURSES.
WE ON AVERAGE LOSE A LITTLE BIT
OF MONEY ANNUALLY.
THE BIG CONCERN IS THAT WE
DON'T HAVE PARTS THAT THE LOSS
OF REVENUE IN ANY FISCAL YEAR
WOULD
BE SO EXTREME THAT THERE
ISN'T MONEY IN PARKS
CORPORATION OTHER PLACES TO
MAKE UP FOR IT.
NOR DO WE WANT TO REQUEST
ADDITIONAL GENERAL DOLLARS TO
COVER THAT LOSS IN OPERATIONS.
SO THE RECOMMENDATION WOULD
COME BASICALLY THAT THERE ISN'T
ENOUGH MONEY IN THE SYSTEM TO
COVER THAT LOSS AND THAT STAFF
WOULD RECOMMEND CONSIDERING
CLOSE TO THE CLUB THE CLOSURE
AS OPPOSED TO HAVING TO MOVE
MONEY FROM OTHER OPERATIONS.
>> SO I WILL STOP THERE WITH
THOSE ANSWERS AND OBVIOUSLY THE
THREE WE'RE HERE TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS REGARDING THE THANK
YOU COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
FIRST I'D LIKE TO MOVE TO AMEND
THE RESOLUTION TO INCLUDE THE
PROPOSED WHEREAS UNRESOLVED
CLAUSES ATTACHED TO THE AGENDA
WHICH I'LL ASK OUR CLERK TO
RECIRCULATE NOW BUT I CAN READ
AS WHEREAS CREATING AND
IMPLEMENTING A TRANSITION TO
COMMUNITY WIDE
CARBON NEUTRALITY AS STIPULATED
IN THE CITY'S EIGHT TWO ZERO
PLAN STRATEGY TWO NECESSITATES
ONE HUNDRED PERCENT DECARBONIZE
ENERGY AND ACCOMPANYING
ELECTRIFIED ENERGY SYSTEMS
INSTALLED AT ALL CITY
FACILITIES BY TWENTY THIRTY
RESOLVED THAT THE CITY COUNCIL
DIRECTS THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR
TO PROVIDE A COMPREHENSIVE
REVIEW OF PARKS DEPARTMENT
CAPITAL NEEDS TO THE PARKS
ADVISORY COMMISSION AND THE
CITY COUNCIL INCLUSIVE OF A
PLAN TO TRANSITION THE CITY'S
GOLF CART FLEET TO ELECTRIC NO
LATER THAN THE END OF THIS
LEASE AGREEMENT IS THERE A
SECOND SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER
BECAUSE HE HAD ONE FROM THE
BODY.
BROWNLIE COUNCIL MEMBER FOR
DENHA IS STILL ON THE FLOOR.
THANK YOU.
SO AT THE LAST MEETING I VOTED
AGAINST THIS LEASE CONTRACT IN
LARGE PART BECAUSE I BELIEVED
THAT THIS CONTRACT WOULD SET US
BEHIND OUR TWO ZERO PLAN.
I BELIEVED INCORRECTLY THAT
GOLF CARTS WERE CONSIDERED PART
OF OUR CITY FLEET AND THAT THE
CONTRACT WHICH WOULD THAT AND
THAT THIS CONTRACT WOULD PUT US
BEHIND OF OUR GOAL OF NINETY
PERCENT OF THE CITY'S FLEET
TRANSITIONING TO ELECTRIC BY
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE IN
SUBSEQUENT CONVERSATIONS WITH
STAFF I WAS REMINDED THAT THE
CITY FLEET VEHICLES ARE ONLY
THOSE PAID FOR OUT OF THE FLEET
FUND AND THAT THE CITY ACTUALLY
OWNS THESE GOLF CART FLEET,
THESE GOLF CARTS ARE LEASED AND
PAID FOR BY THE PARKS FUND AND
AS A RESULT ARE MORE MORE
ACCURATELY FALL UNDER OUR ONE
HUNDRED PERCENT DECARBONIZE
ENERGY AND ACCOMPANYING
ELECTRIFIED ENERGY SYSTEMS
INSTALLED AT ALL CITY
FACILITIES BY TWENTY THIRTY
GOAL.
SO THIS CONTRACT WHILE NOT
IDEAL, DOES NOT SET US BEHIND
ON OUR TWO ZERO PLANS AND I
HAVE HEARD FROM PARK STAFF
ABOUT HOW MUCH THEY WANT TO
MAKE THIS CONVERSION IF WE MAKE
FUNDING AVAILABLE TO ACHIEVE IT
WITH THE AMENDMENT THAT I
PROPOSED TONIGHT THE RESOLUTION
REMINDS US OF OUR GOALS AND
DIRECTS THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR
TO PROVIDE A COMPREHENSIVE
REVIEW OF OUR PARKS DEPARTMENT
CAPITAL NEEDS TO PARKS ADVISORY
COMMISSION AND CITY COUNCIL AND
MAKE PLANS FOR THAT TRANSITION
FURTHER.
I DO THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO
SAY THAT I AM NOT PERSONALLY A
FAN OF URBAN GOLF COURSES.
I THINK THERE ARE PROBABLY
BETTER USES FOR LAND FOR THIS
LAND WITHIN OUR CITY BUT THIS
ISN'T THE CHOICE ON OUR AGENDA
TONIGHT.
IF WE VOTE DOWN THIS GOLF
COURSE AT LEAST IN A PROXY VOTE
ON LAND USE AS SOME HAVE
ENCOURAGED US TO DO AND FOREGO
THE REVENUE GENERATED BY GOLF
CART RENTALS WHICH WILL FORCE
US TO SHUT DOWN THE GOLF COURSE
FOR A SEASON WITHOUT
APPROPRIATE VISIONING PLANNING
AND BUDGETING WORK NECESSARY OR
CLEAR COUNCIL DIRECTION TO
GUIDE STAFF AND APPROPRIATELY
RESOURCE ANOTHER USE EVEN AS
PARKS OPEN SPACE STAFF WOULD
NEED TO ASSUME THAT A FUTURE
COUNCIL ACTION COULD REOPEN
THIS COURSE AND WOULD LIKELY
NEED TO MAINTAIN IT IN A WAY
THAT WOULD ALLOW THAT IF THE
GOAL IS TO SHUT DOWN OUR GOLF
COURSES WHICH HASN'T ACTUALLY
BEEN EXPRESSED AT THIS TABLE
YET I DON'T BELIEVE THAT THIS
IS THE APPROPRIATE WAY TO
ACHIEVE THAT THROUGH A PROXY
VOTE.
SO I'LL BE VOTING YES DOING
COUNCIL MEMBER IOR.
THANK YOU.
I DID MY TIME ON COUNCIL MADE
NO SECRET OF THE FACT THAT I
THINK GIVEN THE FACT THAT WE
HAVE A HOUSING CRISIS AND A
CLIMATE CRISIS THAT GOLF
COURSES JUST ARE NOT A GOOD USE
OF LAND WITHIN THE CITY.
>> UM THE IDEA FOR ME OF VOTING
FOR THIS GOLF CART LEASE FOR
GAS POWERED GOLF CARTS AND AND
THEN LAYERING IN ON TOP OF IT
THE IDEA THAT WE ARE GOING TO
INVEST A LOT OF MONEY IN
PUTTING IN EVVY INFRASTRUCTURE
FOR ELECTRIC GOLF CARTS IN THE
FUTURE, THEREFORE JUST
INCREASING OUR INVESTMENT IN
THIS LAND USE THAT I THINK IS
COMPLETELY CONTRARY TO
EVERYTHING THAT WE SAY WE STAND
FOR UP HERE IS JUST NOT
SOMETHING I'M WILLING TO DO.
AND IF THAT MEANS WE KIND TO
THROW THINGS IN DISARRAY FOR A
MINUTE, I'M OK WITH THAT.
SOMETIMES THAT'S THE WAY
SOMETIMES THAT'S THE BEST WAY
TO GET THINGS DONE.
SO JUST UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES
CAN I VOTE FOR THIS TONIGHT
COUNCIL MEMBER QUINNELL, THANK
YOU.
I AM A LITTLE FRUSTRATED THAT
REALLY NOTHING IS DIFFERENT
FROM THE LAST TIME THAT THIS
CAME BEFORE US.
I WOULD HAVE LIKED TO HAVE SEEN
SOME CONSIDERATION AROUND THE
GPS UNITS AND WHETHER OR NOT
THAT COULD BE MONEY USED TO I
GUESS KEEP THE GOLF COURSES
OPEN.
I MEAN WE'RE LEASING WE'RE
RENTING GOLF CARTS AND WE CAN'T
PAY FOR THE GOLF COURSES.
SEEMS REALLY STRANGE TO ME.
I THINK WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS I MEAN I
SERVE ON THE BOARD OF THE
ECOLOGY CENTER.
I RAN AN ENVIRONMENTAL PLATFORM
TWO AND A HALF HOURS PER WEEK
OF USE OF A GOLF GAS POWERED
GOLF CART EMITS THE SAME AMOUNT
OF CO2 AS EIGHT REFRIGERATORS
POWERED CONSISTENTLY CONSTANTLY
FOR AN ENTIRE YEAR.
SO MY CONSCIENCE FIRST OF ALL
ON THAT POINT WON'T I'M NOT
GOING TO VOTE YES FOR THIS.
I ALSO THINK THERE'S WE NEED TO
RECOGNIZE THE DICHOTOMY BETWEEN
BEING OUTSIDE FOR RECREATION
WHILE CONTRIBUTING TO THE
RELENTLESS ENVIRONMENTAL
DESTRUCTION BY HAVING THESE
CRAZY POLLUTANTS THAT WE'RE
SUBSIDIZING.
AND I ALSO THINK THERE'S A
REALLY TERRIBLE DICHOTOMY THAT
AS A BODY WE CAN SIT HERE AND
SAY YOU CAN RAKE BUT YOU CAN'T
WALK WHEN YOU BOTH LIKE.
THAT TO ME IS ALSO A TERRIBLE
MESSAGE TO SEND AND SEEMS
INCONSISTENT IF THAT'S WHAT OUR
VALUES ARE, WHY DON'T THEY
ALIGN GOLF ONLY BENEFITS GOLF.
WE'RE GOING TO LOSE MONEY AND
WHAT WE HEARD I THINK LOUD AND
CLEAR IN THIS MEMO IN THESE
DISCUSSIONS IS WE CAN'T EVEN
AFFORD THE PARKS THAT WE HAVE.
AND SO I JUST I THINK THAT THIS
IS A TERRIBLE USE OF STAFF TIME
TO CONSIDER TO CONTINUE TO
PURSUE THIS AND TO LOOK AT THE
ECONOMIC BENEFITS OF IT AND TO
FIGURE OUT A WAY TO AFFORD.
I JUST DON'T THINK THAT IT'S
NECESSARY AND I THINK THAT AS A
CITY PARK IT'S TAKING MORE AWAY
FROM WHAT WE BELIEVE IN AND THE
VALUES THAT WE HAVE IN OUR
BUDGET THEN IT BRINGS IN AND
IT'S JUST NOT JUSTIFIABLE.
>> THANK YOU, COUNCILOR IN
BRITISH.
I WANTED TO ASK TWO QUESTIONS
OF MR DELACOURT.
SO THE FIRST QUESTION I
WONDERED IF YOU COULD GIVE US
JUST A COUPLE OF WORDS ABOUT
SOME OF THE OTHER NEEDS OF THE
PARKS SYSTEM THAT FOR NOW WOULD
MAKE ELECTRIFICATION OF GOLF
COURTS, COURTS, GOLF CARTS A
LOWER PRIORITY.
>> AND THEN MY SECOND QUESTION
IS IS IT TOO LATE TO MAKE SURE
THAT THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
TEAM CONSIDERS WHAT WE MIGHT
WANT TO DO WITH OUR GOLF
COURSES AND IN PARTICULAR IN
REFERENCE TO OUR 20
NEIGHBORHOOD GOALS BECAUSE IT
IS TRUE THAT LESLEY PARK IS
MAKES IT VERY DIFFICULT FOR
PEOPLE WHO LIVE ON OUR SIDE
OF TOWN TO GET TO THE SERVICES
THAT THEY NEED AND THE
RESIDENTS WHO LIVE OFF OF LESLI
PARK ARE SOMETIMES FRUSTRATED
BY THE FACT THAT THEY CAN'T USE
IT AS FULLY AS THEY WOULD LIKE
TO BECAUSE IT'S BEING USED AS A
GOLF COURSE.
I KNOW THESE THINGS ARE I'M NOT
ASKING FOR US TO CHANGE THOSE.
I'M ASKING IF IT'S STILL
POSSIBLE TO GET THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN TEAM TO
CONSIDER WHAT WE MIGHT DO WITH
THEM OTHER THAN WHAT WE'RE
USING THEM FOR TRADING PARTNERS
.
YES, I'LL RELAY THAT TO THE
GROUP THAT PLAN I THINK THE
CONSIDERATION AND THE DESIRE
THE COUNCIL TO HAVE THAT PLAN
MAKES SOME SIGNIFICANT
RECOMMENDATIONS REGARDING
HOUSING AND HOW TO INCREASE
HOUSING DENSITY IN THE CITY WAS
HEARD LOUD AND CLEAR WITH THE
RESOLUTION IMPROVE CONTRAST ON
BUT JUST TO DOUBLE DOWN ON THAT
AND MAKE SURE THE CURRENT HEARS
MESSAGE IN RELATION TO ALL
INDUCERS INCLUDING PARKLAND
PROPERTIES IN THE CITY THAT MAY
BE AVAILABLE AND WHAT THAT
PROCESS WOULD LOOK LIKE THE
FIRST QUESTION IS AND I WOULD
BE REMISS TO SAY THAT YOU KNOW,
PARKS HAS BEEN ONGOING AND
GREAT FOR ALL PARTICIPANTS IN
THE ELECTROPAC FLEET AND EVERY
OPPORTUNITY NOT JUST THE
ELECTRIFICATION OF THE MEETING
OF THE TWO RESUSCITATOR IS A
MATTER OF A DESIRE FOR A LACK
OF DESIRE TO HAVE ELECTROPOP
WORDS.
NOR IS IT A LACK OF DESIRE TO
HAVE CAR PARKS AND THE
INFRASTRUCTURE NECESSARY TO PUT
THEM APPRECIATE COUNCIL MEMBER
JUSTICE QUESTION BECAUSE FOR
STAFF THE RECOMMENDATION IS
SOLELY RELATED TO AVAILABLE
RESOURCES VERSUS PRIORITIES.
WE MAKE NO BONES ABOUT IT.
THE MONEY THAT IT WOULD TAKE TO
BUILD THIS INFRASTRUCTURE IT IS
NOT MASSIVE BUT IT IS
SIGNIFICANT IN COMPARISON TO
THE WE SAID TODAY WITH A TWENTY
MILLION DOLLARS IN UNFUNDED
A.D.A IMPROVEMENTS THAT WE NEED
TO MAKE IN PARKS WE HAVE
SIGNIFICANT ISSUES WITH OTHER
PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE RELATED
TO FACILITIES THAT NEED TO BE
REPAIRED JUST TO KEEP THE
CURRENT OPERATIONS GOING.
THE CONVERSATIONS REGARDING THE
VALUE OF GOLF AND THE
UTILIZATION OF THE LAND ASIDE
WITH THE CURRENT INFRASTRUCTURE
IN CAPITAL MEANS THAT WE
ALREADY ARE AWARE OF WHAT WE
WOULD BE REMISS TO MAKE A
RECOMMENDATION THAT ANY
AVAILABLE FUNDING WHETHER IT BE
GREAT OR GENERAL FUND DOLLARS
OR THE CUTTING
OF OTHER
PROGRAMS IN THE PARKS
DEPARTMENT TO FUND THE
INFRASTRUCTURE NECESSARY TO
EITHER BUY OR LEASE ELECTRIC
GOLF COURSES WHETHER IT BE A
COMPARABLE RECOMMENDATION FOR
US TO SAY THE LEAST AMOUNT
OF AVAILABLE FUNDING THAT COMES
FROM THOSE SOURCES, WHETHER IT
BE FROM RECOGNIZING THE
PRIORITY AND THE IMPORTANCE
ELECTRIFICATION AND OF THE
SUSTAINABILITY GOALS IN THE
PROGRAM, WE STILL FEEL STRONGLY
THAT THE NEEDS OF THE EXISTING
INFRASTRUCTURE OUTWEIGH THOSE
NEEDS AS FAR AS AVAILABLE
RESOURCES WHICH ARE STILL THE
OF PRIORITY.
AND IF YOU TELL US THAT THERE
IS MONEY YOU WOULD US RATHER
SPEND ON THAT INFRASTRUCTURE,
WE WILL DO SO AND THERE'S A LOT
OF FOLKS WHO WOULD BE GRATEFUL
TO HAVE THE CURRENT ENVIRONMENT
AND THE INFRASTRUCTURE THAT
GOES WITH THEM.
I CAN GO ON AND ON ABOUT THE
CAPITAL NEEDS WE HAVE YOU GUYS
WILL SEE THE CONTRACT WITH THE
CAPITAL STUDY FOR PARKS IN
FRONT OF YOU SHORTLY.
IT'S ON OUR AGENDA TO DO THIS
YEAR.
IT IS DESIGNED TO WALK HAND IN
HAND WITH THAT ABC STUDY SO WE
CAN MAKE SOLID FUNDING
RECOMMENDATIONS ON WHAT PARKS
AND RECREATION NEEDS ARE GOING
TO BE FOR A LONG PERIOD
OF TIME.
BUT I THINK I'VE ANSWERED SOME
OF OUR PRIORITIES.
AH AND LIKE I SAID, THERE'S A
LAUNDRY LIST OF OTHER NEEDS WE
COULD TALK ABOUT THAT WE'RE
GOING TO BE HARD PRESSED TO
FIND FUNDING FOR OVER THE NEXT
TEN CATS OVER BRIGS.
>> THANKS AS A VOICE AT OUR
LAST MEETING I REMAIN CONCERNED
THAT THIS LIST CONFLICTS WITH
OUR CARBON NEUTRALITY GOALS AND
THAT THE GOLF COURSES CONFLICT
WITH OUR LAND USE GOALS.
I ALSO RECOGNIZE THAT PARKS AS
WE JUST HEARD ARE FACED WITH
SIGNIFICANT CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT
NEEDS AND SO I BELIEVE THAT
PARKS RIGHTLY NOTED THAT THE
INVESTMENT IN FACILITIES FOR
CHARGING VEHICLES WASN'T
ALIGNED WITH OUR GOALS AND
DIDN'T RAISE THAT UP ERM
CONTINUE TO BE A CONCERNED AND
A BIT FRUSTRATED THAT THE STAFF
BROUGHT US THIS LEASE WITH OUT
THE WITHOUT THE PLANNING
BACKGROUND BEHIND IT.
I THINK IT DESERVED THIS.
>> I DON'T THINK WE SHOULD HAVE
BEEN PRESENTED WITH THIS LEASE
IN THIS IN THIS CAPACITY AS IT
CAME TO US.
I'M REALLY APPRECIATIVE
OF COUNCIL MEMBER HORNELL FOR
FOR RAISING THE ISSUE AT THE
LAST MEETING.
I THINK IN HIGHLIGHTING THIS
IT'S DIFFICULT BECAUSE YOU
KNOW, I DON'T DISAGREE WITH
ANYTHING THAT SHE SAID OR
COUNCIL MEMBER ER SAID IN TERMS
OF WHAT OUR VALUES ARE.
BUT I I ALSO AGREE WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER OR DENHA IN THE SENSE
THAT THIS I DON'T BELIEVE THAT
THIS VOTE SHOULD BE OUR PROXY
VOTE FOR CLOSING THE GOLF
COURSES.
I THINK THAT WE SHOULD APPROACH
THAT THOUGHTFULLY AND
APPROPRIATELY.
THIS HAS AN ABRUPT CLOSURE HAS
SIGNIFICANT IMPACTS ON STAFF
AND IT HAS SIGNIFICANT IMPACTS
ON COMMUNITY RECREATIONAL
EXPECTATIONS OF WHICH GOLF
COURSES ARE NOT A PRIORITY
OF MINE.
BUT I RECOGNIZE THAT THEY ARE
AN EXPECTATION OF OUR COMMUNITY
AT THIS POINT AND I BELIEVE
HOWEVER THAT THE TIME HAS COME
FOR US TO HAVE A SERIOUS
CONVERSATION AROUND THAT.
BUT I DON'T BELIEVE THAT WE DO
SO IN THE IN IN THE CAPACITY
OF OF THIS BOAT.
I WOULD BE HAPPY TO CO-SPONSOR
A RESOLUTION TO HAVE US
ACTIVELY LOOK AT THIS ISSUE
WELL IN ADVANCE OF WHEN THIS
LIST IS GOING TO BE UP SO THAT
WE CAN ACTUALLY HAVE A
THOUGHTFUL CONVERSATION ABOUT
WHAT THE FUTURE OF THIS LAND
SHOULD LOOK LIKE AND AND DO
THAT IN CONJUNCTION POTENTIALLY
WITH OUR COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE
PLAN BECAUSE I THINK THAT THESE
ARE THEIR SIGNIFICANT TRADE
THAT WE'RE FACING AT THIS
POINT.
SO UNFORTUNATELY I WILL
RELUCTANTLY CONTINUE TO VOTE
FOR THE APPROVAL OF THIS LEASE
DESPITE MY SIGNIFICANT
DISCOMFORT WITH IT.
BUT I HOPE THAT WE CAN HAVE A
SERIOUS CONVERSATION AROUND THE
FUTURE OF GOLF COURSES.
>> KOUTS MEMBER OF DENHA THANKS
AT THIS POINT MOSTLY DITTO WHAT
COUNCIL MEMBER EXERCISED.
I HAVE STARTED HAVING SOME
OF THESE CONVERSATIONS WITH
STAFF AS I'VE SHARED WITH WITH
SOME OF YOU AND AS STAFF KNOWS
GOLFING IS ALSO NOT A PRIORITY
OF MINE.
I THINK URBAN GOLF COURSES ARE
A TERRIBLE LAND USE IN
PARTICULAR BUT THIS IS PULLING
AN AGENDA ITEM THAT STARTED AS
A CONTRACT ON THE CONSENT
AGENDA AND TURNING IT INTO A
VOTE TO SHUT DOWN OUR GOLF
COURSES IS NOT IN MY VIEW THE
APPROPRIATE WAY TO MOVE US
FORWARD ON THIS CONVERSATION.
THIS IS THIS IS A CONVERSATION
THAT WARRANTS A COMMUNITY
DISCUSSION.
IT WARRANT FRANKLY IF IF THERE
IS ANY USE OTHER THAN A PARKS
USE IT REQUIRES A VOTE OF THE
PEOPLE.
AND SO SO HAVING THAT
CONVERSATION IS SOMETHING I AM
OPEN TO.
WE SHOULD WE SHOULD THEN ASK A
TO HAVE THAT CONVERSATION BUT
WE SHOULDN'T SHUT DOWN OUR GOLF
COURSES THROUGH DENYING A
CONTRACT RIGHT BEFORE THE GOLF
SEASON BEGINS.
AND SO THAT'S WHY I WON'T VOTE
TO MOVE THIS FORWARD.
IT IS IT IS NOT BECAUSE I
NECESSARILY BELIEVE THAT THIS
IS THE BEST USE OF THIS LAND
BUT RATHER BECAUSE THIS IS NOT
THE WAY TO MAKE A LAND USE
DECISION.
>> COUNCILOR RUSSELL
.
SO I NEVER THOUGHT I WOULD EVER
HAVE A VOTE ON GOLF CARTS AT AT
THIS TABLE CONSIDERING THAT MY
PARTNER SPENT YEARS PASSING BY
OUR LOCAL GOLF PARKS AND
SHOUTING THIS SHOULD BE A SKATE
PARK.
>> YOU KNOW, IF WE'RE GOING TO
TALK ABOUT HOW PUBLIC PARKS ARE
USED AND HOW RECITED THE SKATE
PARK IS ACTUALLY AN EXCELLENT
PLACE FOR HOUSING CONSIDERING
THAT IT'S OFF OF BUSTLINE AND
CLOSE TO AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
>> THOSE ARE FIGHTING WORDS IN
MY HOUSEHOLD.
BUT AGAIN, CLEARLY THIS IS NOT
A DISCUSSION THAT HAS THAT
HAPPENS AT THE TABLE WHERE WE
DECIDE WHICH PARK IS IS IS MORE
WELL SUITED FOR HOUSING BECAUSE
THIS IS NOT A DISCUSSION EVEN
THE HOUSING COMMISSION HAS HAD.
WE HAVE SO MANY OTHER PARCELS
TO CONSIDER TO NOT ONLY
CONSIDER ENGAGING IN COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT TO FIGURE OUT
FINANCING, THERE'S YOU KNOW,
UNLESS THERE'S A PRIVATE
DEVELOPER WHO IS COMING FORWARD
THAT I DON'T KNOW OF READY TO
DEVELOP HERE ON HILLS GOLF
COURSE WE HAVE A GOLF COURSE AS
SOMEONE WHO WILL NEVER GOLF, I
I YOU KNOW, REPRESENT AN AREA
WITH A LOT OF GOLFERS AND THESE
ARE THE REALITIES OF THIS TABLE
WHERE I THINK WE CAN HAVE
DIFFERENT DISCUSSIONS AT THE
SAME TIME.
BUT THIS DISCUSSION IS ACTUALLY
NOT ON HOUSING.
IT'S ON GOLF CARTS OF ALL
THINGS AND I'M HESITANT TO
CLOSE DOWN, YOU KNOW, BLETCHLEY
PARK GOLF COURSE APPARENTLY IS
VOTED THE TOP GOLF COURSE
MUNICIPAL GOLF COURSE IN THE
STATES.
WEIRDLY ENOUGH, OUR HIGH
SCHOOLS HAVE GOLF TEAMS AND
GOLF IS A BENEFIT A QUALITY
OF LIFE ISSUE FOR SOME
RESIDENTS HERE.
SO I APPRECIATE COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA BRINGING THIS UP AND I
APPRECIATE COUNCIL MEMBER ERIKA
BRIGGS FOR BEING UP.
THE IDEA THAT WE CAN TAKE A
LOOK AT LAND USE BUT PROBABLY
NOT ON THIS BOAT COUNCIL MEMBER
AH, THANK YOU.
UM, I'LL BE VERY BRIEF.
THIS IS THIS IS A VOTE ON GOLF
CARTS AND JUST LIKE I VOTED
AGAINST GAS POWERED LEAF
BLOWERS, I'M GOING TO VOTE
AGAINST GAS POWERED GOLF CARTS
.
>> WE'LL JUST LEAVE IT AT THAT.
COUNCILOR RACKMAN SO I THINK
WE'VE ESTABLISHED THAT WE'RE
NOT A COUNCIL OF GOLFERS.
SO WE'LL ADD TO THAT, UH, YOU
KNOW, WE HAVE REALLY AMBITIOUS
EIGHT TO ZERO GOALS AND I THINK
IT'S A CITY WHERE ACCOMPLISHING
A LOT THAT INCLUDES PARKS AND
WE KNOW WE CAN'T ACCOMPLISH
EVERYTHING AT THE SAME TIME.
IN FACT, WE'VE HAD SEVERAL
THINGS COME ACROSS THIS TABLE
THAT HAVE GONE THROUGH GREEN
FLEETS REVIEW AND ULTIMATELY
HAVE DECIDED TO RECOMMEND THE
GAS ONE BECAUSE THE ELECTRIC
EITHER WASN'T AVAILABLE OR IT
WAS PROHIBITIVELY EXPENSIVE
SUCH THAT WE COULDN'T PURCHASE
IT.
>> AND TO BE HONEST I REALLY
DON'T WANT TO SPEND ONE POINT
TWO MILLION DOLLARS FROM OUR
EXISTING PARKS BUDGET TO RETOOL
THE EXISTING GOLF GOLF COURSES
FOR THE REASONS MENTIONED.
YOU KNOW, I THINK WHAT'S
NAGGING ME ABOUT THIS IS THAT
WE CHARGE A FEE TO USE THE GOLF
COURSES INCLUDING FOR THE KURDS
AND IT SEEMS LIKE THE FEES THAT
WE'RE CHARGING ARE NOT, YOU
KNOW, ALLOWING US TO COVER THE
COST OF NEEDED UPGRADES TO A
TWO ZERO GOALS THAT FEELS LIKE
WE'RE KIND OF ALLOWING A
NEGATIVE EXTERNALITY IN THE
FORM OF EMISSIONS AND THAT
DOESN'T REALLY SEEM TO MAKE
SENSE.
I DON'T NECESSARILY THINK NOW
IS THE TIME TO MAKE THAT
DECISION AGAIN SUDDENLY JUST
BASICALLY YANKING US AWAY
THROUGH A CONTRACT.
SO I THINK I'M ACTUALLY GOING
TO SUPPORT THIS EVEN THOUGH I
VOTED AGAINST IT LAST TIME FOR
MANY OF THE REASONS THAT MY
COLLEAGUES SAID.
>> BUT IT'S A TOUGH ONE COUNCIL
MEMBER NOW I JUST WANT TO MAKE
SURE I UNDERSTOOD WHAT MR
DELACOURT SAID WAS THAT WE'RE
GOING TO SPEND THIS MONEY OUT
OF THE GENERAL BUDGET BUT NOT
ACTUALLY MAKE ANY MONEY OFF THE
GOLF CART RENTALS.
>> IS THAT CORRECT?
AND WE WOULD BE PROBABLY WHAT
WE DON'T MAKE ANY MONEY ON GOLF
COURSE OPERATIONS.
THEY PROBABLY WON'T BE COST TO
RUN BOTH COURSES.
>> THANK YOU.
>> CAN I CAN I ADD SOMETHING TO
THAT PLEASE?
SO LAST YEAR THE GOLF MANY
OF THE GOLF COURSES WERE
INCREASED DURING THE BUDGET
PROCESS TO SUPPORT TO FURTHER
SUPPORT THE THE VIABILITY
OF GOLF IN THE CITY OF AMARA IN
TWO OF THE NINE 2010 THERE WAS
A LOT OF DISCUSSION SIMILAR TO
THE LAND USE THAT MADE SOME
DECISIONS FOR WE WE MADE
DECISIONS BACK
THEN TO TO KEEP
THE COURSES AT AN AFFORDABLE
PRICE AND FOCUS ON THAT.
SOME OF THE FEES THAT WE
INCREASED LAST YEAR THE GOLF
COURSES HAVE NOT INCREASED IN
TEN TO FIFTEEN YEARS AND SO
WE'VE SLOWLY TRYING TO CATCH UP
ON SOME OF THAT.
OUR GOAL WITH THE THE INCREASE
OF GOLF THAT WE HAVE SEEN
DURING THE PANDEMIC AND POST
PANDEMIC HAVE ALLOWED US TO
MOVE CLOSER AND CLOSER TO THAT
BREAK EVEN OR MAKING MONEY AT
LESLI AS WELL AS WITH THE
RENOVATION THAT TOOK PLACE AT
YOUR OWN HOUSE.
SO STORMWATER THAT REDUCED OUR
ABILITY TO TO MAKE SOME OF SOME
OF THE FEES THAT WE WOULD
EXPECT.
SO I ANTICIPATE US CONTINUING
TO MOVE BOZKURT WITH THE GOLF
COURSES AND THE FEES THAT WERE
APPROVED LAST YEAR WERE
DESIGNED TO HELP SUPPORT THE
GOLF COURSE GOLF CARTS
INCREASES AND MAKES THEM MORE
VIABLE FOR US MOVING FORWARD.
SO THE NO NOT ENOUGH OF OUR
FACILITIES BREAK EVEN THE GOLF
COURSES CONTINUE TO MOVE CLOSER
TO THAT POINT AND WE STRIVE
EVERY DAY TO TO TO BE CLOSER
WITH THE THE AND IT'S FAIR TO
SAY THIS CONVERSATION WE ARE
AWARE OF THIS TAKING PLACE THE
CAPITAL STUDY IT'S BEING DONE
THE STUDY THAT WAS BEING DONE
ON IT IS OUR INTENT TO EVALUATE
ALL OF THE CITY'S PARKS AND
RECREATION OPPORTUNITIES AND
BRING FORWARD THE HOPEFULLY BY
NEXT BUDGET YEAR PLAN THAT
INTRODUCED THE FISCAL SOLVENCY
OF THE PARKS AND OPERATIONS AND
RECREATION DEPARTMENT AS A
WHOLE INCLUDE EVALUATION FEES.
WE WOULD ANTICIPATE AN
EVALUATION OF ALL THE PARKS IN
THE LAND TO DETERMINE IF IT IS
BELOW CAPITALIZED AND UTILIZED
ITS BEST WAY TO MEET OUR
COUNCIL'S GOALS AND THAT
INCLUDING HOUSING AND PROBABLY
THAT EVALUATION WOULDN'T BE
LIMITED TO JUST THE GOLF COURSE
PROPERTIES AS WELL.
>> IT WOULD MAKE SENSE TO TAKE
A QUICK HOLISTIC LOOK AT THAT
AS FAR AS THE PLAN TO MEET
THOSE HOUSING NEEDS AND TO HELP
THE FINANCIAL SITUATION OUT
THERE WILL ALSO INCLUDE IF WE
GO FORWARD WITH WITH GOLF
COURSES AND IT'S DETERMINED
THAT THOSE WILL BE HERE AND
PART OF THE CITY'S PARKS AND
RECREATION DEPARTMENT A
CONSIDERATION OF RAISING FEES
TO COVER THE COST TO ELECTRIFY
THE GOLF COURSE.
THE GOLF CARTS WOULD CERTAINLY
BE A PART OF THAT WE BELIEVE
BEFORE CHANGING THE FEES TO
COVER THAT COST.
IT'S IMPORTANT TO ENSURE THAT
THAT IS THE LONG TERM GOAL IN
THE LONG TERM RECOMMENDATION AS
FAR AS LAND USE FOR THOSE FOR
THOSE SPACES TO I THINK THE
APPROACH THAT THE GOLF CART IS
PROPER THAT THAT FOR THE
WILDERNESS WHICH IS IN THE
GENERAL FUND THE MAJORITY
OF OUR PROJECTS COME OUT OF THE
PARKS MILLAGE SO THE
PLAYGROUNDS TO BRIDGE WHAT
WE'RE TO DO OTHERWISE IT'S ALL
COMING OUT OF THE PARKS VILLAGE
WHICH FOR CAPITAL PROJECTS IS
ABOUT TWO MILLION DOLLARS A
YEAR.
SO SO THERE WE ARE COVERING THE
COST OF THE LEASE AND WE CAN'T
COVER WITH GENERAL FUNDS IN THE
FEES AT THIS POINT ARE THE
INCREASED PROJECTS AT THE GOLF
COURSES ER THANK YOU FOR THE
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBERS ON
WE HAD APPROVED THE PARKS
RECREATION OPEN SPACE PLAN AND
IN REVIEWING THAT WE DO TALK
ABOUT HOW MANY OF OUR
FACILITIES ARE EXPENSIVE TO
MAINTAIN HOW THEY'RE FUNDED AND
SUPPORTED THROUGH OUR MILEAGES.
YOU KNOW GOLF IS ONE OF SEVERAL
OFFERINGS THAT WE PROVIDE HERE
IN THE CITY.
>> THE POOLS ARE ALSO DIFFICULT
TO MAINTAIN AND EXPENSIVE TO
MAINTAIN.
>> BUT GIVEN THAT THERE ARE SO
MANY PRIVATE FACILITIES RACKET
CLUB EVERY NEIGHBORHOOD HAS
ORCHARD HILLS ATHLETIC CLUB
FACEBOOK YOU CAN NAME IN EVERY
NEIGHBORHOOD A PRIVATE POOL
THAT REQUIRES A MEMBERSHIP BUT
I THINK WE COULD BE REALLY
PROUD OF THE CITY OF BANABA TO
PROVIDE PRETTY EXTENSIVE PUBLIC
OFFERINGS FOR FOLKS THAT IT'S
ACCESSIBLE, THAT WE CAN PROGRAM
WITH SUMMER CAMPS, THAT WE CAN
PROGRAM FOR YOUTH AND NOT HAVE
TO RELY ON NON-PROFITS TO DO US
THIS WORK ALTHOUGH WE DO
PARTNER WITH BOTH LESLEY
SCIENCE AND NATURE CENTER AND
KOMY ACTION NETWORK ON PARK
FACILITIES.
>> SO I JUST WANT TO POINT OUT
HOW OUR HOW THE LINKS AT OUR
PARK STAFF GOES TO MAKE SURE
THAT WE DO USE OUR PARKS,
FACILITIES AND OFFERINGS IN
SUPPORT OF PUBLIC NEEDS PRETTY
CONSISTENTLY IN COMPETITION
WITH, YOU KNOW, OTHER
FACILITIES THAT ARE PRIVATE AND
RESTRICTED AND NOT OPEN TO THE
PUBLIC.
FURTHER DISCUSSION
.
MM ROLL ALTHOUGH PLEASE START
WITH THE COUNCIL MCCASKEY,
OTHER MEMBER 01.
YES.
TAYLOR YES.
COUNCILOR IHR NO COUNCILOR
ACRIMONIOUS COUNCILOR BRIGGS
YES.
COUNCILOR CORNELL NO COUNCILOR
DISH YES.
COUNCILOR HARRISON YES.
COUNCILOR SONG YES.
COUNCILOR WATSON YES.
>> THAT'S WHERE DENHA YES
MOTION CARRIES D1 RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE FEES FOR THE FIRE
DEPARTMENT, AMBULANCE TRANSPORT
AND LIFTERS IS AN APPROPRIATE
FUNDING MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON SECONDARY.
>> MY COUNCILOR DITCHED
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF D1
COUNCILOR HARRISON SO I JUST
WANTED TO THANK CHIEF KENNEDY
FOR HIS SWIFT ACTION AND
OPENNESS TO DIALOG IN RESPONSE
TO CONCERNS RAISED BY SEVERAL
OF OUR TOWN COUNCIL AS CHAIR
AND OTHERS IN THE COMMUNITY,
CHIEF KENNEDY SWIFTLY TOOK
ACTION BY CONSULTING WITH KODAI
AND FOLLOWED THEIR
RECOMMENDATIONS LEADING TO A
DECISION TO CHARGE ONLY
BUSINESSES FOR LIFT ASSISTANCE.
>> I APPRECIATE IT IS IMMEDIATE
AND EFFECTIVE RESPONSE WHICH
NOT ONLY ADDRESSES THE DIGNITY
OF ANY FINANCIAL BURDENS ON
BURDENS ON RESIDENTS WITH
DISABILITIES BUT ALSO HIGHLIGHT
THE IMPORTANCE OF LIVING BY THE
DISABILITY COMMUNITY'S CREDO
OF NOTHING WITHOUT US.
SO THANK YOU MR VICKIE'S HERE
COUNCILOR YEMEN.
>> THANK YOU MAYOR TAYLOR.
UM I ALSO JUST WANT TO SECOND
WHAT COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON
EXPRESSED AND I WANT TO THANK
CHIEF KENNEDY FOR COMING TO THE
KODAI MEETING AND WORKING WITH
US AND LISTENING TO SOME OF OUR
CONCERNS ABOUT PASSING ON THESE
FEES TO OUR MOST VULNERABLE UM
AND REACHING A BETTER A BETTER
ALTERNATIVE.
>> SO I WANT TO THANK YOU FOR
DOING THAT.
TO THAT END, PERHAPS AMENDMENT
.
>> YES.
I WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION
TO INTRODUCE A SUBSTITUTE
RESOLUTION SO THE RESOLUTION ON
THAT REGISTER TO SUBSTITUTE FOR
THE EXISTING RESOLUTION IS
THERE A SECOND SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA
COUNTERMARCH ZERO AS I SAID, I
THINK THE NEW AMENDED THIS NEW
RESOLUTION REALLY HELPS TO SET
OUR EQUITY AND AS COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRISON SAID THAT THE
MOTTO NOTHING ABOUT US WITHOUT
US.
I THINK WE REALLY EXEMPLIFIED
IT WHEN CHIEF KENNEDY CAME AND
LISTENED TO SEVERAL MEMBERS
OF KODAI COMMISSION AND PEOPLE
WITH DISABILITIES SO AGAIN I
WANT TO THANK YOU FOR THAT IS
THE AMENDMENT FROM THE BODY I
MEAN IT'S REALLY FURTHER
DISCUSSION AND MOTION AS
AMENDED TO PILE ON THE
GRATITUDE TO TO CHIEF KENNEDY
AND TO THE FOLKS ON KODAI.
IT'S IT'S CRUCIAL THAT THAT WE
ALL WORK TOGETHER TO ENSURE
THAT CITY SERVICES ARE
EFFICIENT, WELL MAINTAINED AND
AND PROPERLY PROPERLY COSTED
AND COST RECOVERY WHEN WHEN
WHEN IT HAS APPROPRIATE AND
CERTAINLY ASKING CARE PROVIDING
FACILITIES TO DO SO IS THE
RIGHT AND PROPER THING AND I
APPRECIATE THAT IN THIS CONTEXT
WE ARE, YOU KNOW, CONTINUE TO
PROVIDE THE THE SERVICE TO
INDIVIDUALS PER THE PER THE
RESOLUTION AND SO I THINK IT'S
A GOOD READ.
>> IT IS A GOOD LANDING PLACE
ALL AROUND IT.
I'M GRATEFUL FOR CHIEF AT ALL
COUNCILOR BRIGGS SORRY I DID
THINK OF ONE QUESTION IF YOU
DON'T MIND
IF NUMERICALLY.
>> YEAH.
THANK YOU SO THE QUESTION IS IN
TERMS OF THE OBVIOUSLY THIS IS
INTENDED TO ADDRESS SOME OF THE
ABUSE THAT OF IN A SENSE THAT
ASSISTED LIVING FACILITIES ARE,
YOU KNOW, CONSISTENTLY CALLING
FOR ASSISTANCE FOR WORK THAT
THEY SHOULD BE DOING ON THEIR
OWN IN TERMS OF HOW THE
AMENDMENT IS WORDED, I JUST
WANTED TO CONFIRM THAT IT'S THE
FIRST TIME IT SOUNDS LIKE IT'S
IT'S THERE WOULD NOT BE A
CHARGE FOR LIFT ASSISTANCE THE
SECOND TIME THERE WOULD BE
THERE'S SORT OF THIS WARNING
PIECE IS THAT PER FACILITY OR
PER INDIVIDUAL WE WERE
INDIVIDUAL.
>> OK, I BELIEVE THERE'S TWELVE
THAT ARE LICENSED IN THE CITY
BANABA, SOME OF WHICH ARE
OFFENDERS, SOME OF WHICH NOT SO
MUCH BUT CORRECT.
THIS WOULD BE PER LICENSE
A
LETTER FROM THE CITY SAYING
HEY, THIS IS THIS ADOPTED IF IT
GOES THROUGH AND THEN IT WOULD
IT WOULD CARRY ON AFTER THAT
SECOND ONE GREAT JUST MAKING
SURE IT WASN'T FOR THE
INDIVIDUAL.
>> THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION ON
FAVOR POSED WITH 11 COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT ALL VOTING THE
AFFIRMATIVE IT IS APPROVED AND
THE VOTE REQUIREMENT THANK YOU
TO RESOLUTION TO APPROVE FEES
FOR THE FIRE DEPARTMENT,
AMBULANCE TRANSPORT AND TO
APPROPRIATE FUNDING MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL SECOND
BY COUNCIL IN BRITISH
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF TO
I JUST
LIKE TO SAY THAT I'M GRATEFUL
TO TO CHIEF AND TO THE SERVICE
FOR PROVIDING PROVIDING THIS
FUNCTION.
IT IS SOMETHING THAT WE ARE
DOING ADDITIONALLY TO TO ENSURE
AND BETTER PROVIDE THE SAFETY
OF OUR RESIDENTS AND COMMUNITY
MEMBERS OF THE THE AMBULANCE
SERVICE HAS THE TRANSPORT
SERVICE HAS PROVEN SUCCESSFUL.
I'M GLAD TO SEE THAT IT IS NOW
BEING FURTHER PROFESSIONALIZED
BY BY THIS MEASURE NOT TO
SUGGEST THE INDIVIDUALS DOING
IT ARE NOT PROFESSIONALS.
I MEAN OH GOOD LORD I THINK YOU
ALL KNOW WHAT I MEAN BUT I'M
GLAD WE'RE DOING IT FURTHER
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED WITH
11 COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT ALL
VOTING THE AFFIRMATIVE IT IS
APPROVED MASCORD WE HAVE THE
APPROPRIATE DO WE HAVE THE
PLEASURE OF A CLOSED SESSION
TODAY?
>> NOT TONIGHT.
>> WE HAVE BEFORE US THE
SUPPORT OF COMMUNICATIONS
PETITIONS AND REFERRALS MOTION
PLEASE TO APPROVE THE CLERK'S
REPORT MOVE BY COUNCILOR
CORNELL'S SECOND MY COUNCIL
MEMBER ACKMANN DISCUSSION
OF THE CLERK'S SUPPORT COUNCIL
MEMBER BRAKE'S NO I YEAH I JUST
WANTED TO KNOW I JUST WANTED TO
THANK MY CLAIMANT WHO'S
RESIGNING FROM TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION SERVICES ON THERE.
SHE'S SERVED WELL AND I
APPRECIATE HER SERVICE FOR THE
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER.
>> SO I'LL LET THAT MOLLY
KLEINMAN IS NOW THE NEW ADL
PRESIDENT THE PRESIDENT, THE
ADL BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
>> SO UM SO ALTHOUGH YOU WON'T
BE SPENDING TIME OUR
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION SHE'S
SAYING TO THE GOOD WORK THAT
THE LIBRARY DOES FURTHER
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED IT IS
PROVED WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS
TODAY FROM OUR CITY ATTORNEY.
NO THANK YOU, MA'AM.
WE HAVE IN THE ABSENCE
OF PUBLIC COMMENT OVERFLOW WE
HAVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN PLEASE
MOVE BY COUNCILOR DEAN IS
TAKING MY COUNSEL OVER THIS
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED.
>> WE'RE ADJOURNED